BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE
Differentiating between secured
and unsecured loans
Students explore characteristics of secured or unsecured
types of credit by playing a sorting game.
Learning goals
KEY INFORMATION
Big idea
Building block:
Borrowers may receive different types of loans Financial knowledge and
based on their credit history. decision-making skills
Grade level: High school (9–12)
Essential questions
Age range: 13–19
§ How might a person’s credit habits
and decisions influence their ability to
Topic: Borrow (Getting loans, Managing
borrow money?
credit)
§ What types of loans help people pay for
School subject: CTE (Career and
large purchases or expenses?
technical education)
Objectives Teaching strategy: Cooperative learning,
Gamification
§ Understand the characteristics of secured
and unsecured loans in order to make Bloom’s Taxonomy level: Understand,
informed borrowing decisions Apply
§ Identify items that could be purchased using
Activity duration: 45–60 minutes
a secured loan versus an unsecured loan
National Standards for Personal
NOTE
Financial Education, 2021
Please remember to consider your students’ Managing credit: 12-2, 12-10
accommodations and special needs to ensure
These standards are cumulative, and topics are not
that all students are able to participate in a repeated in each grade level. This activity may include
information students need to understand before
meaningful way. exploring this topic in more detail.
To find this and other activities, go to:
Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau consumerfinance.gov/teach-activities 1 of 9
Summer 2022

What students will do
§ Work collaboratively to sort game cards with loan characteristics into two piles:
secured and unsecured loans.
§ Work collaboratively to sort game cards with items to show which ones can
likely be purchased with secured loans and which can likely be purchased with
unsecured loans.
Preparing for this activity
□ While it’s not necessary, completing the “Reading about credit scores” activity
first may make this one more meaningful.
□ Print a single-sided copy of the “Characteristics of secured and unsecured
loans” game cards in this guide on one color of paper for each student group.
□ Print a single-sided copy of the “Items you can purchase with secured or
unsecured loans” game cards in this guide on a second color of paper for
each student group.
□ Cut all sheets into individual cards. Make sure each group has each set of
game cards.
° If you prefer, print the cards on sticker paper and affix them to playing
cards so you can reuse them in the future.
What you’ll need
THIS TEACHER GUIDE
§ Differentiating between secured and unsecured loans (guide)
cfpb_building_block_activities_differentiating-secured-unsecured-loans_guide.pdf
STUDENT MATERIALS
§ “Characteristics of secured and unsecured loans” game cards and “Items you can
purchase with secured or unsecured loans” game cards (in this guide)
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 2 of 9
Summer 2022

Exploring key financial concepts
Credit offers seem to be everywhere, but not everyone who applies TIP
for a loan will be approved. Creditors often evaluate a person’s
Because financial products,
credit history to determine whether they will lend them money.
terms, and laws change,
For people who are just starting to build their credit or who have students should be encouraged
lower credit scores, it may be easier to get a secured loan than an to always look for the most
unsecured loan. Secured loans require the borrower to provide up-to-date information.
collateral (something of value like a car, a boat, a home, etc.) that
the bank or lending institution can take to get their money back if
the borrower can’t pay back the loan.
Lenders may offer people with higher credit scores unsecured loans. These
loans require no collateral, so the bank or lending institution is trusting that these
borrowers will pay them back. This trust is based on their credit history—what
borrowers have done in the past that gives them a good credit rating. Because
unsecured loans put lenders at higher risk, they may have a higher interest rate
than secured loans. If that trust does not result in repayment, the lender can report
late or missing payments to the credit reporting companies, can engage in debt
collection, and might sue the borrower.
Teaching this activity
Whole-class introduction
§ Ask students if they or someone they know has ever lent someone money.
§ Ask students what kinds of things people consider before lending someone
money.
° Examples may include whether and when the borrower can pay the money
back or how much the lender would be willing to lend.
§ Read the “Exploring key financial concepts” section to explain secured and
unsecured loans.
§ Ask students to take a moment to consider the similarities and differences
between secured and unsecured loans.
§ Be sure students have a basic context of loans:
° Loss of collateral isn’t the only consequence of nonpayment of a secured
loan. Nonpayment can result in such things as negative information on your
credit report, a lower credit score, debt collection, or being sued.
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 3 of 9
Summer 2022

° When many factors are equal (e.g., income, job history), secured credit may
be easier to get than unsecured.
° People seeking a loan must remember that they’re a customer buying a
product and that they shouldn’t allow lenders to intimidate them or make
them feel as if the lenders are doing them a favor by granting credit.
§ Be sure students understand key vocabulary:
° Interest: A fee charged by a lender, and paid by a TIP
borrower, for the use of money. A bank or credit union
Visit CFPB’s financial
may also pay you interest if you deposit money in certain
education glossary at
types of accounts.
consumerfinance.gov/
° Lender: An organization or person that lends money with financial-education-glossary/.
the expectation that it will be repaid, generally with interest.
° Loan: Money that needs to be repaid by the borrower, generally with interest.
° Secured loans: Loans in which your property (things you own) is used as
collateral; if you cannot pay back the loan, the lender takes your collateral to
get their money back. The lender can also engage in debt collection, can file
negative information on your credit report, and might sue you.
° Unsecured loan: A loan (such as most types of credit cards) that does not use
property as collateral. Lenders consider these loans to be more risky than
secured loans, so they may charge a higher rate of interest for them. If the
loan is not paid back as agreed, the lender can also start debt collection, file
negative information on your credit report, and might sue you.
Group work
Working with the “Characteristics” cards
§ Divide students into groups of three or four and give the “Characteristics” cards
to each group.
§ Instruct the groups to review the cards and sort them into three piles:
° Characteristics that apply to secured loans
° Characteristics that apply to unsecured loans
° Characteristics that apply to both types of loans
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 4 of 9
Summer 2022

§ When all groups have finished sorting, review their answers by calling on
each group to share a characteristic and whether it represents a secured or
unsecured loan or both.
§ As students answer, invite them to share their reasoning.
§ As needed, help students understand where characteristics fit.
Working with the “Items” cards
§ Distribute the “Items” cards to each group and ask students to sort them
into two piles:
° Items that would likely be paid for using secured loans
° Items that would likely be paid for using unsecured loans
§ When all groups have finished sorting, call on different groups to share
their responses.
§ As needed, help them understand where items fit.
° Some items could fall into either category, so have students discuss which
characteristics they used to make their choice.
Wrap-up
If time allows, ask students to complete an exit ticket responding to the following
prompt: “How would you describe the difference between a secured and an
unsecured loan?”
Suggested next steps
Consider searching for other CFPB activities that address the topic of borrowing,
including getting loans and managing credit. Suggested activities include
“Qualifying for loans” and “Calculating loan payments”.
You also may consider having students get an estimated credit score at the FICO
Score Estimator1 at https://www.myfico.com/fico-credit-score-estimator/estimator.
1 The CFPB does not endorse this third party or guarantee the accuracy of this third-party information.
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 5 of 9
Summer 2022

Measuring student learning
Students’ answers during the game and during discussion can give you a sense
of their understanding.
These answer guides provide possible answers for the game. Keep in mind
that students’ answers may vary. The important thing is for students to have
reasonable justification for their answers.
Answer guide for “Characteristics of secured and unsecured loans” cards
Lender can take possession Might be easier for
Connected to collateral
of your collateral borrowers to get
(secured loan)
(secured loan) (secured loan)
If you have no credit history
or are rebuilding your credit, Usually have lower
Less risky to lenders
you’re more likely to be interest rates
(secured loan)
approved for this type of loan (secured loan)
(secured loan)
Lender holds title or an
Usually have higher Usually offers longer
interest in the property until
borrowing limits repayment time period
the loan is paid in full
(secured loan) (secured loan)
(secured loan)
You could use personal
Your property may be sold property such as a bank Lender not protected by
to pay off the loan deposit or a car to back any collateral
(secured loan) this loan (unsecured loan)
(secured loan)
If you default on the loan, You can set up automatic You obtain this loan based
the lender can’t automatically payments to help make sure on your income and
take your property your payments go in on time credit record
(unsecured loan) (both) (unsecured loan)
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 6 of 9
Summer 2022

Make your payments on time
May require a down payment Riskier for lenders
to protect your credit report
(secured loan) (unsecured loan)
(both)
Lenders may use stricter Face debt collection or get Usually has lower
lending criteria sued if you don’t repay borrowing limits
(unsecured loan) (both) (unsecured loan)
Answer guide for “Items you can purchase with secured or unsecured loans” cards
Car Boat Recreational vehicle
(secured loan) (secured loan) (secured loan)
Home Home equity line of credit Home improvement loan
(secured loan) (secured loan) (secured loan)
Credit card Student loan Personal loan
(unsecured loan) (unsecured loan) (unsecured loan)
Jewelry Vacation Business equipment
(secured loan) (unsecured loan) (secured loan)
Unexpected expenses Automobile repairs Wedding expenses
(unsecured loan) (unsecured loan) (unsecured loan)
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 7 of 9
Summer 2022

“Characteristics of secured
and unsecured loans” game cards
Print these cards one-sided on colored paper (try to use a different color than what you use
for the “Items you can purchase with secured or unsecured loans” game cards).
Lender can take possession May be easier for borrowers
Connected to collateral
of your collateral to get
If you have no credit history
or are rebuilding your credit, Usually have lower
Less risky to lenders
you’re more likely to be interest rates
approved for this type of loan
Lender holds title or an
Usually have higher Usually offers longer
interest in the property until
borrowing limits repayment time period
the loan is paid in full
You could use personal
Your property may be sold property such as a bank Lender is not protected by
to pay off the loan deposit or a car to back any collateral
this loan
If you default on the loan, You can set up automatic You obtain this loan
the lender can’t automatically payments to help make sure based on your income and
take your property your payments go in on time credit record
Make your payments on time
May require a down payment Riskier for lenders
to protect your credit report
Lenders may use stricter Face debt collection or get Usually has lower
lending criteria sued if you don’t repay borrowing limits
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 8 of 9
Summer 2022

“Items you can purchase with secured
or unsecured loans” game cards
Print these cards one-sided on colored paper (try to use a different color than what you
use for the “Characteristics of secured and unsecured loans” game cards).
Car Boat Recreational vehicle
Home Home equity line of credit Home improvement loan
Credit card Student loan Personal loan
Jewelry Vacation Business equipment
Unexpected expenses Automobile repairs Wedding expenses
Differentiating between secured
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE and unsecured loans 9 of 9
Summer 2022