BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE
Getting a credit card and using it wisely
Students conduct research to learn about how credit cards work
and some tips for using them.
Learning goals
KEY INFORMATION
Big idea
Building block:
Consumers use credit cards to buy things, track Executive function
spending, and pay bills.
Grade level: Middle school (6–8)
Essential questions
Age range: 11–14
§ Why might I want a credit card?
Topic: Borrow (Managing credit)
§ Why is it important to keep track of how
School subject: CTE (Career and technical
much I spend on my credit card each month?
education), English or language arts,
Objectives Social studies or history
§ Understand the benefits and risks of having Teaching strategy: Cooperative
and using a credit card learning, Direct instruction
§ Identify the difference between a secured
Bloom’s Taxonomy level: Understand,
and unsecured credit card
Apply
Activity duration: 45–60 minutes
What students will do
§ Conduct Internet research about credit cards
and how they work.
National Standards for Personal
§ Learn important things to consider before Financial Education, 2021
applying for a credit card. Spending: 4-1, 4-5, 4-6, 8-1, 8-2, 8-3, 8-4,
12-1, 12-2, 12-9
Managing credit: 4-1, 4-2, 8-1, 8-3, 8-4,
8-6, 8-7, 12-1, 12-8
NOTE
These standards are cumulative, and topics are not
Please remember to consider your students’
repeated in each grade level. This activity may include
accommodations and special needs to ensure information students need to understand before
exploring this topic in more detail.
that all students are able to participate in a
meaningful way.
To find this and other activities, go to:
Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau consumerfinance.gov/teach-activities 1 of 5
Summer 2022

Preparing for this activity
□ While it’s not necessary, completing the “Understanding credit scores” activity
first may make this one more meaningful.
□ Print copies of all student materials for each student, or prepare for students to
access them electronically.
□ Become familiar with the “Using credit” webpage on the consumer.gov website.
□ Obtain computers or tablets with Internet access so pairs of students can
conduct research.
What you’ll need
THIS TEACHER GUIDE
§ Getting a credit card and using it wisely (guide)
cfpb_building_block_activities_getting-credit-card-using-wisely_guide.pdf
STUDENT MATERIALS
§ Getting a credit card and using it wisely (worksheet)
cfpb_building_block_activities_getting-credit-card-using-wisely_worksheet.pdf
§ “Using credit” webpage on the consumer.gov website at https://www.consumer.gov/
articles/1010-using-credit
§ Computers or tablets with Internet access
Exploring key financial concepts
A credit card gives a person access to financial credit — which TIP
means money that you borrow to buy something or pay for
Because products, terms, and
something and that you’re responsible to repay in full (often with
laws related to credit cards
interest). Many Americans have a credit card. In fact, the average
change, students should
consumer may have several credit cards.
be encouraged to always
More and more people use their credit cards to buy things online look for the most up-to-date
and in person, pay bills, and even to track their spending. Some information.
credit cards offer benefits like cash back on purchases or points
you can collect for discounts. When choosing a credit card, it’s
helpful to shop around and find the card that works for you.
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE Getting a credit card and using it wisely 2 of 5
Summer 2022

Because you can buy things and even get cash using a credit card, it’s important
to keep the card — and the credit card number — safe so that they can’t be stolen.
Learning to use credit cards safely can help you manage and protect your money.
Teaching this activity
Whole-class introduction
§ Distribute the “Getting a credit card and using it wisely” worksheet to each student.
§ Have students form pairs and assign each group a computer.
§ Be sure students understand key vocabulary:
° APR (Annual Percentage Rate): The cost of borrowing TIP
money on a yearly basis, expressed as a percentage rate.
Visit CFPB’s financial
° Credit: Borrowing money, or having the right to borrow education glossary at
money, to buy something. Usually it means you’re using a consumerfinance.gov/
credit card, but it might also mean that you got a loan. financial-education-glossary/.
° Credit card: An open-ended loan that allows you to borrow
money up to a certain limit and carry over an unpaid balance
from month to month. There is no fixed time to repay the loan as long as you
make the minimum payment due each month. (You can pay the loan balance
in full every month or carry it over.) You pay interest on any outstanding credit
card loan balance.
° Credit limit: This is a limit set by the credit card company on how much you
can charge on the card it issued to you. You can use your credit card to make
purchases up to your credit limit.
° Grace period: The number of days you have to pay your bill in full before
finance charges start. Without this period, you may have to pay interest from
the date you use your card or when the purchase is posted to your account.
Individual and group work
§ In pairs, students will visit the “Using credit” webpage on the
consumer.gov website.
§ Have students complete the worksheet using the information from the
webpage’s “What it is” and “What to know” tabs.
§ Students will work independently to answer the reflection questions.
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE Getting a credit card and using it wisely 3 of 5
Summer 2022

Wrap-up
§ Bring the class together and discuss how credit cards can be a useful tool.
§ Ask students to share their answers to the reflection questions.
Suggested next steps
Consider searching for other CFPB activities that address the topics of borrowing,
including managing credit. Suggested activities include “Analyzing credit card
statements” and “Managing credit card payments.”
Measuring student learning
Students’ answers on their worksheets and during discussion can give you a
sense of their understanding.
This answer guide provides possible answers for the “Getting a credit card and
using it wisely” worksheet.
Keep in mind that students’ answers may vary. The important thing is for students
to have reasonable justification for their answers.
Answer guide
“Using credit: What it is” section
1. If you get a credit card, why is it important to look for one that has a low
interest rate?
Interest is what you pay for using someone else’s money. You repay money
to whomever gave you the credit card or loan. Credit cards and loans have
different interest rates. Look for the “APR.” APR means annual percentage
rate. It’s how much interest you pay during a whole year.
It’s important to look for a credit card with a lower interest rate because a
lower interest rate means you pay less money. A higher interest rate means
you pay more money.
2. Who offers people credit cards?
Banks and credit unions offer credit cards. They usually offer credit cards to
people with a good credit history. Some stores offer credit cards. In those
cases, you can use the store credit card only in that store. Sometimes these
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE Getting a credit card and using it wisely 4 of 5
Summer 2022

cards are easier to get if you don’t have a credit history, and they may be
a good way to build your credit history. But sometimes store credit cards
have higher interest rates, which means you’ll pay more for borrowing
money using that credit card.
“Using credit: What to know” section
3. In your own words, explain how a credit card works.
When you use a credit card, someone lends you money to buy something.
Here’s how it works:
° You want to buy groceries.
° You pay with a credit card from a bank.
° The bank pays the store for your groceries.
° The bank sends you the credit card bill, including charges for the groceries.
° You pay your credit card bill.
4. Why might someone want or need a secured credit card?
Some people may want to get a secured credit card if they can’t get an
unsecured credit card. This gives you a credit card and helps to build up your
credit record if you pay it on time, every time. A secured credit card is a card
that you pay for in advance. You put money in an account. Then you can use
the card to spend that much money. It works like a regular debit card. It’s
different from a prepaid card in two important ways:
° A secured credit card usually has lower fees than a prepaid card.
° A secured credit card should give information to the three national credit
reporting companies. Most prepaid cards don’t.
5. Why is it a good idea to pay your entire credit card bill each month?
If you can pay your entire bill every month, you won’t have to pay interest.
That makes credit less expensive for you. If you pay less than the full amount
borrowed, you’ll pay interest on the amount you didn’t pay back. That amount
is called the balance. If you can’t pay your whole bill every month, the more
of it that you do pay, the less you will have to carry as a balance. The smaller
your balance, the less interest you will pay. And it’s important that you at least
pay the minimum payment to avoid incurring late fees and hurting your credit
record. Credit is more expensive if you pay only the minimum amount due and
are charged for interest on the balance.
BUILDING BLOCKS TEACHER GUIDE Getting a credit card and using it wisely 5 of 5
Summer 2022