Being regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority
Guide for
consumer
credit firms
www.fca.org.uk/consumer-credit
Updated
February
2016

Guide for consumer credit firms
Being regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority
Guide for consumer
credit firms
Contents
P6 FCA rules and guidance
P17 Getting authorised
P31 Being supervised by the FCA
P43 Enforcement
P46 A nnex: Controlled functions for
consumer credit
www.fca.org.uk/consumer-credit FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 33

Guide for consumer credit firms
Introduction
This guide is for consumer credit
firms1, in particular those that are
new to being regulated by us. It
provides an overview of how we will
work with you and your obligations
as an FCA regulated firm.
We have an overarching strategic objective to ensure that the
relevant markets function well. This is embodied in our three
operational objectives:
• to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers
• to protect and enhance the integrity of the UK financial system
• to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers
These objectives are the foundation for our approach to regulating
firms. In our relationship with you we want to ensure that fair
treatment of consumers is at the heart of your business, and that
you do not adversely affect market integrity and competition.
1 This guide is relevant both to firms active in consumer lending, as well as those involved in debt activities.
4 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Our engagement with firms takes place through four main
activities:
• creating rules that firms must follow (through our Policy work)
• considering whether firms should be authorised by us for
particular activities (led by our Authorisations Division)
• ongoing supervision of regulated firms’ activities (Supervision
Division)
• the use of our enforcement powers in instances where we
identify egregious misconduct (Enforcement Division)
This guide is intended to include a summary of the regulatory
requirements and is not a substitute for reading the applicable
rules and guidance. In the event that there are differences
between this guide and the applicable rules and guidance, the
rules and guidance take precedence.
We want to ensure that fair treatment of
consumers is at the heart of your business,
and that you do not adversely affect
market integrity and competition.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 55

Guide for consumer credit firms
FCA rules and guidance
The framework
Firms carrying on credit-related regulated activities, as outlined in
the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)2, must follow certain rules
about how they manage their businesses and treat their customers.
We have the power to make rules that are legally binding on firms.
Where we find problems, we will generally seek to work with
firms to resolve issues voluntarily in the first instance. However, if
we can’t agree a voluntary solution, we may rely on our formal
powers in order to limit ongoing risks to consumers.
We can also issue guidance on our rules and high-level Principles.
Guidance indicates possible ways for a firm to comply with a rule,
or gives information about how we will interpret a rule in certain
circumstances. Guidance is not binding and failing to follow it
does not necessarily mean that a rule has been breached.
We set out our rules and guidance in the FCA Handbook.3 In
the Handbook text, words in italics are defined in a glossary of
terms.4 More information about how to use the Handbook is in a
reader’s guide.5
The rules and guidance applicable to consumer credit firms are
primarily in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)6, but other
Handbook provisions are also relevant as set out below.
2 Our Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) gives guidance on which activities require FCA authorisation:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/PERG/
3 FCA Handbook: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/
4 FCA Handbook glossary: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/glossary/
5 FCA Handbook Reader’s Guide: http://www.fca.org.uk/your-fca/documents/handbook/handbook-readers-guide
6 Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/
6 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Most of the new rules which we made for consumer credit firms
when we took over regulating these firms in April 2014 were based
on existing standards. Many of the obligations were contained
in the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), in secondary legislation
which flowed from the CCA, and in Office of Fair Trading (OFT)
Guidance, so should be familiar to firms. We have also added
some new rules, in particular in relation to high-cost short-term
credit (HCSTC), debt management and credit broking, and have
amended others.
A summary of the rules made in the lead-up to the transfer of
consumer credit regulation in April 2014 can be found in our
policy statement PS14/37, available on the FCA website.
Additional rules on HCSTC and credit broking were made in
PS14/168 and PS14/189 respectively, and further changes to CONC
rules and guidance, following consultation in February 2015
(CP15/610), were made in PS15/23.11
Chapter 1 of CONC sets out the application of the rules, and
CONC 1.2.2R requires firms to ensure that their employees and
agents comply with CONC, and to take reasonable steps to ensure
that other persons acting on their behalf also comply.
Lenders and credit brokers should also be aware of the
provisions of the CCA and secondary legislation that have
remained in force, pending our report on our review of these
provisions to be provided to HM Treasury before 1 April 2019.
These include rules on pre-contract credit information, credit
agreements, copy documents, statements and notices, and
termination and early settlement.
7 Policy Statement (PS14/3) Final rules for consumer credit firms:
https://www.fca.org.uk/news/ps14-3-final-rules-for-consumer-credit-firms
8 Policy Statement (PS14/16) Detailed rules for the price-cap on high-cost short-term credit – including feedback on CP14/10
and final rules: http://www.fca.org.uk/news/ps14-16-detailed-rules-on-the-price-cap-on-high-cost-short-term-credit
9 Policy Statement (PS14/18) Credit broking and fees: http://www.fca.org.uk/news/ps14-18-credit-broking-and-fees
10 Consultation Paper (CP15/6) Consumer credit – proposed changes to our rules and guidance:
http://www.fca.org.uk/news/cp15-06-consumer-credit-consultation-paper
11 Policy Statement (PS15/23) Consumer credit – feedback on CP15/6 and final rules and guidance:
http://www.fca.org.uk/news/ps15-23-consumer-credit-feedback-on-cp15-6-and-final-rules-and-guidance
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 77

Guide for consumer credit firms
Firms will also be subject to other general consumer protection
legislation, including the Consumer Protection from Unfair
Trading Regulations and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts
Regulations (which was replaced by the Consumer Rights Act on
1 October 2015).
How we make rules
As noted above, since taking over consumer credit regulation from
the OFT, we have made a number of changes to our rules and
guidance. In most cases we have done so following consultation
and cost benefit analysis. In the case of credit broking, however,
we introduced new rules in December 2014 without prior
consultation, on the grounds that the delay involved in consulting
would be prejudicial to the interests of consumers.
When consulting, we typically allow around three months for
responses. We then publish a policy statement setting out the
feedback we received, and our response to this, at the same time
as publishing final rules and guidance
We keep the CONC rules under review in the light of experience
of supervising the consumer credit market, and may make further
changes to address areas of harm to consumers, or to clarify or
amend the rules to ensure they clearly reflect the policy intention
or respond to issues raised by firms or other stakeholders.
Firms are encouraged to sign up to consumer credit email updates12
on our website so they can keep up to date with the proposed
changes to our rules and guidance.
How the Handbook is structured
The FCA Handbook13 is broken down into blocks. Each block
contains a number of modules (which are called sourcebooks and
12 Sign up for consumer credit update emails: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/sign-email-updates-consumer-credit
13 FCA Handbook website: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/
8 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
manuals). Each module contains chapters and sections, which
provide our rules.
Each module has an abbreviated title, such as ‘PRIN’ or ‘CONC’.
Our high-level standards apply (with some exceptions) to all
firms. Other modules contain specific rules for particular types
of firm – these are known as specialist sourcebooks. There are
also modules which set out how our regulatory processes work,
and regulatory guides which provide guidance on matters such as
financial crime, unfair contract terms and what permissions firms
may need.
The high level standards which apply to consumer credit firms
are:
Principles for Businesses (PRIN).14 This sets out the fundamentals
which we expect all regulated firms to meet. The eleven principles
are listed and more detail is given below.
Threshold Conditions (COND).15 This sets out minimum
conditions which all firms must meet if they wish to be authorised.
Once authorised, firms must continue to meet these standards on
an ongoing basis.
General Provisions (GEN).16 This sets out some of the standards
that apply to all firms in terms of their interaction with us, including
statutory disclosure statements and use of the FCA name or logo.
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls
(SYSC).17 This sets out how we expect senior management in firms
to take responsibility for the running and oversight of their firm,
as well as the systems, controls and compliance arrangements
that should be in place.
14 Principles for Businesses (PRIN): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/PRIN/
15 Threshold Conditions (COND): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/COND/
16 General Provisions (GEN): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/GEN/
17 Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/SYSC/
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 99

Guide for consumer credit firms
Statements of Principle and Code
of Practice for Approved Persons The Principles for
(APER).18 This sets out the standards Businesses are
that we require of individuals who the fundamental
hold ‘controlled functions’ in a firm. obligations that
It also outlines a code of practice for firms must comply
how to comply. with at all times.
The Fit and Proper Test for
Approved Persons (FIT).19 This sets
out the criteria that we consider when assessing the fitness and
propriety of a candidate for a controlled function (see also the
‘Getting Authorised’ section below).
Fees Manual (FEES).20 This provides details around firms’ liability
to pay fees.
Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) are the fundamental
obligations that firms must comply with at all times. They apply
to all authorised firms and those with interim permission. We can
take enforcement action if they are breached.
18 Statements of Principle for Approved Persons: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/APER/
19 The Fit and Proper test for Approved Persons: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/FIT/1/1
20 Fees Manual (FEES): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/FEES/
10 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
1. Integrity – A firm must conduct its business with integrity.
2. S kill, care and diligence – A firm must conduct its business with due skill,
care and diligence.
3. Management and control – A firm must take reasonable care to organise
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems.
4. F inancial prudence – A firm must maintain adequate financial resources.
5 Market conduct – A firm must observe proper standards of market
conduct.
6. C ustomers’ interests – A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
7. Communications with clients – A firm must pay due regard to the
information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a
way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
8. C onflicts of interest – A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,
both between itself and its customers and between a customer and
another client.
9. Customers: relationships of trust – A firm must take reasonable care
to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any
customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
10. Clients’ assets – A firm must arrange adequate protection for clients’
assets when it is responsible for them.
11. Relations with regulators – A firm must deal with its regulators in an
open and cooperative way, and must disclose to the appropriate regulator
appropriately anything relating to the firm of which that regulator would
reasonably expect notice.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 1111

Guide for consumer credit firms
Treating Customers Fairly
Of key relevance to all regulated firms is Principle 6 – ‘A firm must
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly’. We often refer to this as our ‘treating customers fairly’
principle.
This principle sits behind many of our detailed rules (including
those in CONC). There are six consumer outcomes that firms
should strive to achieve to ensure fair treatment of customers.
These remain core to what we expect from firms.
• Outcome 1: Consumers can be confident that they are dealing
with firms where the fair treatment of customers is central to
the corporate culture.
• Outcome 2: Products and services marketed and sold in the
retail market are designed to meet the needs of identified
consumer groups and are targeted accordingly.
• Outcome 3: Consumers are provided with clear information
and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after
the point of sale.
• Outcome 4: Where consumers receive advice, the advice is
suitable and takes account of their circumstances.
• Outcome 5: Consumers are provided with products that
perform as firms have led them to expect, and the associated
service is of an acceptable standard and as they have been led
to expect.
• Outcome 6: Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale
barriers imposed by firms to change product, switch provider,
submit a claim or make a complaint.
12 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
A firm must pay due regard to the
interests of its customers and
treat them fairly.
Senior management arrangements and systems and controls
Principle 3 states ‘A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems’.
The systems and controls rules in SYSC describe what we will expect, in practice,
from firms when complying with Principle 3.
Broadly, the rules cover:
• robust governance arrangements
• skills, knowledge and expertise of staff
• outsourcing responsibilities
• record-keeping
• conflicts of interest
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 1133

Guide for consumer credit firms
The types of systems and controls a firm must have
in place reflect the nature, scale and complexity of We would not
the firm’s business and the risk the activity may expect a small
pose to consumers. lender dealing with
a small number of
For example, we would not expect a small lender
customers to have
dealing with a small number of customers to have
the same scale
the same scale of systems and controls as a major
of systems and
lender or a large debt collection business.
controls as a major
lender or a large
You should refer to SYSC 1 to check how the
debt collection
requirements apply to your firm. A core set of
business.
rules apply to all firms, with further rules applying
depending on the activity undertaken.
General provisions
The general provisions (in GEN) contain a number of rules relating
to mainly administrative duties. They include:
• a ban on firms claiming or implying that their business is
endorsed by the FCA
• situations when a firm cannot comply with our rules in an
emergency
• how to interpret our Handbook of rules and guidance
(including noting that every provision in the Handbook must
be interpreted in light of its purpose)
• how firms authorised by us must describe their regulatory status
• restrictions on using our name or logo
• a ban on insurance against financial penalties imposed on a
firm’s employees, directors or partners
14 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Complaints
The Disputes Resolution: Complaints module (DISP)21 sets out
the detailed requirements for handling consumer complaints
against firms and the Financial Ombudsman Service
arrangements (including for complaints before the transfer of
regulation to the FCA).
Firms also have to comply with our rules to record, report and,
where appropriate, publish certain complaints information.
Prudential and client money rules
For debt management firms, we have rules requiring firms to hold
certain levels of capital (prudential rules) and rules on holding
their customer’s money (client money rules). These are set out in
CONC 10 and CASS 11 (CASS is the Client assets module of our
Handbook).
Other sections of the Handbook
In addition to the high-level standards listed above, consumer
credit firms should have regard to other sections of the Handbook,
which provide guidance on our regulatory procedures and on
matters such as dispute resolution, financial crime and fairness in
contractual terms. Some of the sections which may be of greatest
interest to firms are:
Supervision (SUP)22 – sets out our supervisory powers. Firms
will be particularly interested in SUP15 and SUP16 which set out
firms’ obligations to report key information, events and changes
to the FCA.
Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual (DEPP)23 – sets
how our decision-making processes operate.
21 The Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/
22 Supervision (SUP): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/SUP/
23 Decision Procedures and Penalties Manual (DEPP): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DEPP/
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 1155

Guide for consumer credit firms
The Enforcement Guide (EG)24 – sets out how our formal
enforcement procedures operate.
Financial Crime: a guide for firms (FC)25 – outlines how firms
can prevent financial crime.
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) – provides guidance on
which permissions firms need to hold.
The Unfair Contract Terms Regulatory Guide (UNFCOG)26 –
outlines the regulation of unfair contract terms.
24 The Enforcement Guide (EG): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/EG/
25 Financial Crime: a guide for firms (FC): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/FC/
26 The Unfair Contract Terms Regulatory Guide (UNFCOG): https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/UNFCOG/
16 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Getting
authorised
This section looks at the FCA
authorisation process and how it will
work in practice for your firm.
On 1 April 2014 we started accepting applications for authorisation
from new consumer credit firms.
Firms that were previously regulated by the OFT were given
interim permission to carry on consumer credit activities and
allocated set application periods to send in their application.
We did this in stages to manage the thousands of applications
that we anticipated. We wrote to firms to tell them when they
should apply.
Authorisation is our equivalent of the OFT consumer credit
licensing regime. Firms that want to carry on regulated activities
must apply for authorisation (unless they are exempt or an
appointed representative).
Our approach is largely based on whether you need to apply for
full permission or can benefit from limited permission.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 1177

Guide for consumer credit firms
Broadly, firms that need to apply for full permission will be subject
to more checks and have more conditions to meet at authorisation
and when carrying out consumer credit-related activities.
The broad categories are27:
Limited Consumer hire (such as tool and car hire firm)
permission
Credit broking (other than by a domestic premises supplier) where
activities
the sale of goods or non-financial services is the main business, and
broking is a secondary activity to help finance the purchase of those
goods or services (such as certain motor dealerships and high-street
retailers that introduce customers to a finance provider)
Credit broking in relation to the Green Deal
Credit broking in relation to hire or hire purchase agreement
Lending where the sale of goods or non-financial services is the
main business, and there is no interest or charges and the agree-
ments are not hire-purchase or conditional sale agreements (such as
certain golf clubs or gyms allowing deferred payment for member-
ship)
Local authorities lending within the scope of the Consumer Credit
Directive
Not-for-profit bodies providing debt counselling and debt ad-
justing and/or credit information services (such as Citizens Advice)
Limited permission activities (other than not-for-profit bodies and
for credit information services) do not cover activities that relate to
agreements secured by legal mortgages on land
A firm that carries on the lending, secondary broking and/or consum-
er hire activities under a limited permission can also apply to carry on
limited permission debt counselling, debt adjusting and credit infor-
mation services.
27 The contents of this table is not a comprehensive list of the regulated activities. To analyse whether activities are lower or
higher risk, firms should review the legislation or seek legal advice.
18 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Full Credit broking where introducing customers to lenders is a main
permission business activity
activities
Credit broking where the sale of goods or services takes place
in the customer’s home (what is known as ‘domestic premises
supplier’)
Debt administration and debt collection
Debt counselling and debt adjusting on a commercial basis
Consumer credit lending which is not limited permission (such
as personal loans, credit cards, overdrafts, pawnbroking, hire-pur-
chase or conditional sale agreements)
Providing credit information services
Providing credit reference agency services
Peer-to-peer lending
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 1199

Guide for consumer credit firms
Consumer credit
firms go through
a similar route to
getting authorised
Our aim is to ensure that firms wanting to offer
as other financial
consumer credit products and services are well run
services firms.
by fit and proper persons and have appropriate
business models.
All firms have to demonstrate that they meet and will continue
to meet our minimum standards to become authorised – known
as our threshold conditions. Our approach to assessing some of
the threshold conditions is modified for limited permission firms.
The threshold conditions are:
Threshold Condition
Legal status
Firms must have a certain legal status to carry out certain regulated activities. (Does
not apply to FCA-only regulated firms, i.e. those that are not also regulated by the
Prudential Regulation Authority).
Location of offices
If the firm is a body corporate constituted under UK law, the firm’s ‘mind and
management’, e.g. directors, compliance function, audit function, should be in the UK.
Effective supervision
A firm must be capable of being effectively supervised by us. Matters which
may affect this include the complexity of its regulated activities, the products it
offers and how the business is organised. In most cases, firms should have a UK
establishment. This will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Appropriate resources
The firm must demonstrate appropriate resources relative to the nature and scale
of the business. This requirement applies not just to financial resources but also
to other resources which are essential to effectively running the firm, such as
the knowledge and competence of staff and the assets of the business, such as
premises and technology.
20 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Suitability
The firm must demonstrate the competence and ability of management, and that
the firm’s affairs are conducted in an appropriate manner regarding the interests of
consumers and the integrity of the UK financial system.
Business model
The firm’s strategy for doing business must be suitable for its regulated activities
and have regard to the FCA’s operational objectives.
Once your firm is authorised, you will also have to meet
requirements on:
• approved persons
• controllers
• regulatory reporting
• complaints reporting and publication
For debt management firms, there are additional requirements
relating to prudential standards and client assets.
Prudential standards also apply to peer-to-peer lending platforms,
as set out in our policy statement on crowd funding.
Our authorisation team will assess your application
in a way that is proportionate to the size and nature
of your business and the risks to consumers.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 2211

Guide for consumer credit firms
Getting ready for FCA authorisation
Consumer credit firms go through a similar route to getting
authorised as other financial services firms.
You need to complete a set of application forms that are relevant
to your business type. This includes details of who works at the
firm, your approved persons, your controllers, your business
model and key financial information.
We will ask you to demonstrate how your firm is set up to meet
our requirements.
This includes your business plan, setting out your business aims and
objectives and how you organise your resources to achieve them. If
you don’t have a business plan, or haven’t revised your current one
for some time, now is the time to start working on this.
Once you are ready to apply, what do you need to do?
You will need to complete your application on our online system,
Connect.28 We will assess your application to see if you meet the
standards we require and will make a decision within:
• six months of receiving your complete application
• 12 months of receiving an incomplete application (or six months
from when an incomplete application becomes complete)
If your application is incomplete or needs further explanation,
we will ask you to clarify it or to provide further information or
documentation, as appropriate. For example, where there are
inconsistent or missing answers.
If you need to apply for full permission you will need to give us more
details about your business than if you apply for limited permission.
28 Our online application system, Connect: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/systems-reporting/connect
22 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
We recommend that you watch our video guides29 to completing
authorisation applications on Connect.
Our authorisation team will assess your application in a way that
is proportionate to the size and nature of your business, and the
potential risks to consumers. We may have more contact with you
if you are applying for full permission and less if you are applying
for limited permission.
What happens next?
The consumer credit authorisation section30 of our website gives
more information about becoming authorised.
If you have registered for interim permission, and you make an
application for authorisation within your allocated application
period, you can continue to trade under your interim permission
until your application for authorisation has either been
granted or rejected. If you do not apply within your allocated
application period then your interim permission will lapse at the
end of that period.
Our website also includes sample application forms31 so you can
see what we will ask you to include when you apply.
29 Connect application system video guides:
https://www.the-fca.org.uk/authorisation-applications-video-guides-consumer-credit
30 Consumer credit authorisation website pages: www.fca.org.uk/cc-authorisation
31 Consumer credit sample application forms: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/authorisation-consumer-credit/apply
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 2233

Guide for consumer credit firms
If you did not have a consumer credit licence on 31 March 2014,
or you did not notify us that you wished to receive interim
permission, you can apply for authorisation at any point but you
cannot carry on any credit-related regulated activities, for which
you require authorisation, until we approve your application.
Fees
We are funded by the firms we regulate through fees. We aim to cover
our costs in a way that is as fair and efficient as possible and we consult
on our fees each year.
Firms have to pay a fee when they apply for authorisation and then annual
fees for every year they are authorised.
The fee that a firm has to pay will be proportionate to the size of the
firm’s business and the type of authorisation.
Firms that can benefit from limited permission will have lower fees than
those of higher-risk firms that need full permission.
More information about application and annual fees32 is available on
our website.
32 Consumer credit fees and levies: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/fees-and-levies-consumer-credit
24 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Approved persons
An approved person is an individual we approve Being an approved
to perform one or more activities on behalf of an person brings with
authorised firm. These are activities that we refer it several important
to as ‘controlled functions’. responsibilities.
These include
At least one individual in all consumer credit firms a duty to be
(except most not-for-profit debt advice bodies and aware of, and
some sole traders) must be approved by us. This comply with,
individual will be the ‘approved person’ for your our regulatory
firm. requirements and
understand how
they apply to each
What we look for controlled function.
We can approve an individual only where we are
satisfied that they are fit and proper to perform
the controlled function(s) they apply for.
Considering a candidate’s fitness and propriety, we look at:
• honesty (including pro-actively contacting the regulator and disclosing to us
any instance in which things have gone wrong or changes are being made
to your business)
• integrity and reputation
• competence and capability
• financial soundness
What approved persons need to do
Being an approved person brings with it several important responsibilities. These
include a duty to be aware of, and comply with, our regulatory requirements and
understand how they apply to each controlled function. Specifically, approved
persons must:
• meet and comply on an ongoing basis with our Fit and Proper test for
Approved Persons
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 2255

Guide for consumer credit firms
• comply with the Statements of Principle and the Code of
Practice for Approved Persons. These describe the conduct
that we require and expect of the individuals we approve
• report to the firm and to us any matter that may affect the
firm’s ongoing fitness and propriety
Controlled functions
Twelve controlled functions potentially apply to consumer credit
firms, depending on their business and legal status. The number
of roles your staff will need to be approved for will depend on the
type of credit activities you intend to carry on, the legal status of
your business and the permissions you require.
Firms with limited permission will normally only require one approved
person. (See table 1 on page 46 for the list of controlled functions.)
You can appoint one individual to be an approved person for
more than one controlled function in your firm, provided you can
demonstrate that individual has the ability to manage multiple
roles. We will consider the application in the context of the scale
of your firm and the activities you plan to undertake.
An individual can be an approved person for more than one firm,
provided that each takes appropriate responsibility for ensuring
the individual manages the risks involved.
Controlled functions need to be carried out by approved persons
who are closely involved in the running of the firm. It is unlikely you
will be able to outsource these roles and still meet the standards
we expect, although we will assess this on a case-by-case basis.
However, you can outsource resources for guidance and support
for approved persons.
There is more information about approved persons33 on our
website.
33 Consumer credit approved persons: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/approved-persons
26 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Principals and appointed representatives
An appointed representative is a firm that carries on regulated
activities under the supervision of another firm that we authorise.
Under this arrangement, if you are the authorised firm (known as
the ‘principal’) you will be responsible for ensuring your appointed
representative meets our requirements. We will not have a direct
relationship with the appointed representative. You will not be
able to have appointed representatives for consumer credit while
you have interim permission – you must wait until you become
authorised.
There must be a written contract between you as the principal and
your appointed representative that documents the arrangement
between you.
As principal, you will take full responsibility for ensuring your
appointed representatives comply with our rules. Before entering
an agreement with an appointed representative, you will need to
carry out sufficient checks on the firm or individual. These are to
ensure that the appointed representative is financially stable and
that they have achieved, and are maintaining, a satisfactory level
of competence.
As a principal you must notify us of any firm you appoint as
an appointed representative. Where applicable, you must also
approve individuals carrying out a controlled function within an
appointed representative firm, before it carries out regulated
activities.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 2277

Guide for consumer credit firms
Once you agree to be a principal, you are accountable for a
range of activities that your appointed representatives carry out,
including:
• the products they sell and broker
• any advice they give to customers, and
• ensuring they deliver the six ‘treating customers fairly’
outcomes in the same way as an authorised firm would
More information about appointed representatives and principals34
is available on our website.
Appointed representatives’ responsibilities
If you are an appointed representative you will need to understand
and comply with the regulatory requirements for the business you
conduct. A business cannot be an appointed representative for a
regulated activity if:
• it does not have a contract with a principal firm covering its
regulated business
• its principal firm has not accepted responsibility in writing for
the regulated activity the business undertakes
• the firm that the business wants to act as its principal holds
only an interim permission for the relevant credit activity
• it operates a credit reference agency
• it provides credit (unless the credit is free of interest and any
other charges)
• it is authorised for another activity
34 A ppointed representatives and principals: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/appointed-representatives-and-principals-
consumer-credit
28 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
The exceptions to this are:
• a firm with interim permission for a credit activity may also be
an appointed representative for an activity regulated under
the Financial Services Markets Act that is not covered by its
interim permission
• a firm with limited permission for certain credit activities will
be able to be an appointed representative for other regulated
activities, eg a motor dealer with limited permission to carry
on credit broking can also be an appointed representative
insurance intermediary
As an appointed representative you must allow the principal access
to your staff, premises and records so the principal can carry out
the necessary oversight and monitoring of your business.
A firm that intends to operate as an appointed representative in the
longer term has to make arrangements with an authorised firm.
An appointed representative is a firm that
carries on regulated activities under the
supversion of another firm that we authorise.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 2299

Guide for consumer credit firms
Unauthorised firms
We actively police firms that are not authorised by us but offer regulated
financial services in the UK. We have a dedicated department tackling
unauthorised business activity and we take steps to actively warn consumers35
about these firms.
Unauthorised businesses pose a significant risk to consumers and distort
the market for firms that are working hard to do the right thing and remain
compliant with regulatory requirements.
We take action against firms and individuals that carry on regulated activities in
the UK without our authorisation. We use a wide range of enforcement powers
including criminal prosecutions, action through the civil courts (injunctions, asset
freezes, winding-up and bankruptcy) and publishing warnings against specific
firms and individuals.
Firms or individuals that carry out unauthorised business do so in breach of
section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). This is a
criminal offence carrying a maximum prison sentence of two years, a fine,
or both.
Even if authorised, firms must ensure that their authorisation includes
permission for all regulated activities they carry out.
Agreements made by unauthorised lenders, or made as a result of introductions
by unauthorised brokers, may also be unenforceable against the consumer
under sections 26A and 27 of FSMA.
You can report an unauthorised consumer credit firm to us by calling our
Contact Centre on 0300 500 0597 or using our online reporting form.36
We have a register37 of the firms we regulate on our website.
35 Protect yourself from unauthorised firms: http://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/protect-yourself/unauthorised-firms
36 Unauthorised consumer credit reporting form: http://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/protect-yourself/report-an-
unauthorised-firm/consumer-credit-reporting-form
37 Financial Services Register: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/systems-reporting/register
30 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Being supervised
by the FCA
We take an active approach to
monitoring and engaging with the
firms we regulate. We call the way
we monitor the market and work
with individual firms ‘supervision’.
This section looks at the FCA supervision model, and how it will
work in practice with your firm. Our approach is proportionate,
and we concentrate our resources on the greatest potential risks
to our objectives. Firms with full permission can expect a more
intensive supervisory approach than firms with limited permission.
We aim to protect consumers and ensure market integrity. We
want to know how your business is really run, to find where
problems flow from and address them at the source. We are
interested in your financial health and how you aim to make
money, both now and in the future, and how your culture and
strategies support fairness for consumers and markets. We will
examine the risks your business poses in these areas, and how
you respond to these risks.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 3311

Guide for consumer credit firms
Our model supports the promotion of effective The extent of your
competition in the interests of consumers. If we engagement with
find firms, groups, products or behaviours that our supervision
could have an adverse effect on competition, we division will
will consider the most appropriate action to take. partly depend on
whether your firm
is classified as a
Our general approach to supervision
‘fixed portfolio’
Firms are expected to meet our standards at all
firm or a ‘flexible
times. The extent of your engagement with our
portfolio’ firm.
supervision division will partly depend on your
firm’s classification. Firms which are designated
as ‘fixed portfolio’ firms will be allocated a named individual
supervisor, and proactively supervised using a firm-specific
continuous assessment approach. The majority of credit firms
will be ‘flexible portfolio’ firms, which are supervised through a
combination of market-based and thematic work, programmes of
communication and engagement and education activity aligned
with the key risks identified for the sector in which the firms
operate. These firms use our Customer Contact Centre as their
first point of contact with us.
Firms will be informed following authorisation and subsequently
on an ongoing basis, when relevant, what supervisory relationship
and approach they will be subject to.
Regardless of your classification, we can contact you at any point
to gather information and address risks we find in your firm. We
use a range of tools to ensure compliance but we’ll aim to resolve
problems cooperatively without our powers if possible.
Supervision tends to take one of the following forms. All of these
are applicable to both fixed and flexible portfolio firms.
32 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Proactive supervision
This is where we proactively assess a particular firm or firms
to understand, mitigate and prevent risks. The basis of our
assessment will generally be whether firms have the interests of
customers and the integrity of the market at the heart of their
business. We decide which firms we will proactively assess on
the basis of risk; however, that doesn’t necessarily mean that we
are acting on specific intelligence about the firms in question.
We can proactively supervise firms on an individual basis, or we
may assess a number of firms across an issue, product or market
at once.
Reactive supervision
When we become aware of significant risks to consumers, or
when damage has already been done, we will respond swiftly
and proportionately.
We can identify risks or problems through a number of sources,
including information from your firm, data analysis, whistle-
blowers and consumer complaints. We will also work closely with
external stakeholders such as local authority trading standards
services (LATSS), the Department for Enterprise, Trade and
Investment Northern Ireland (DETINI) and consumer bodies as
sources of information.
You have a duty to tell us about any risks or problems that emerge
in relation to your firm that may have an impact on our objectives.
You can find out more about this duty in SUP15.
If we find a problem, we’ll seek to work with you to resolve it
voluntarily. If we can’t agree a voluntary solution, we may rely on
our formal powers in order to limit ongoing risks to consumers.
Where we are aware the same risk is evident in more than one firm,
we can engage with several firms at once to ensure that all firms
deal with the risk, consumers are protected and poor behaviour
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 3333

Guide for consumer credit firms
is rectified, with compensation being paid to
consumers if necessary. We place
significant value
on whistleblowing
Whistleblowing
alerts. We take
One of the ways we receive information about
each case seriously
wrongdoing in firms is from employees or former
and will act upon
employees. We take each case seriously and will
the intelligence
collect and act upon the intelligence received from
received wherever
whistleblowers wherever appropriate. We place
appropriate.
significant value on whistleblowing alerts and
seek to provide as much useful feedback to the
whistleblower as possible, within the restrictions
we are bound by. More information about whistleblowing38 is
available on our website.
Thematic Reviews
We look across the market to analyse current events and
investigate potential causes of poor outcomes for consumers and
market participants. Where we find issues which exist or may exist
in a number of firms, we will consider carrying out a thematic
review to examine the relevant issue in a number of firms at once.
We will be transparent about the areas we are interested in and
why. When we decide that action is needed to reduce a risk to
consumers or the integrity of financial markets, we will address
our response to all firms in the relevant market, not just those
that have been involved in the assessment work, and expect you
to consider and act as necessary on our findings.
Follow-up action could include changing our rules or guidance or
publishing consumer communications. We will generally publish
the results of our thematic work and use it to highlight good
practices as well as areas of concern.
38 Learn more about whistleblowing: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/whistleblowing
34 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Specialist supervision teams
We have a number of specialist teams in our supervision division
who support our front-line supervisors.
Prudential supervision
Our approach aims to minimise the harm to consumers and
market stability when firms experience financial stress or fail.
Our main focus is on debt management firms, as they are subject
to specific prudential and client money requirements. These are
set out in CONC 10 and CASS 11. Peer-to-peer lenders are also
subject to specific prudential and client money requirements.
Financial promotions
The principle that communications should be clear, fair and
not misleading is the backbone of our approach to financial
promotions, such as advertising and other marketing.
We have a dedicated team that will proactively monitor promotions
across all media, as well as consider referrals and intelligence from
others. If we consider that a financial promotion does not meet
our requirements, we will have a number of tools available:
• where we see a non-compliant financial promotion, we will
contact the firm, asking them to amend or withdraw it
• for repeat breaches, we may also ask them to provide us
with a formal attestation (a signed statement) that they have
effective governance in place for the approval of compliant
financial promotions
• in cases where the firm does not co-operate, we can issue a
supervisory notice banning the promotion
• in the worst cases, enforcement action may also be appropriate
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 3355

Guide for consumer credit firms
You can report misleading promotions39 to us
using the steps outlined on our website. Our approach to
the assessment of
terms under the
Unfair terms in consumer contracts regulations is set
We are responsible for monitoring firms’ out in the UNFCOG
compliance with the Unfair Terms in Consumer module in our
Contracts Regulations. If we decide to take action Handbook.
in relation to the fairness of terms in standard
consumer contracts, we can apply for an injunction
under the regulations to prevent a firm relying on unfair terms. We
also have the power to accept an undertaking from a firm that
it will no longer use terms that we consider unfair. We publish
undertakings from firms on our website.
We may also consider carrying out thematic work, looking at
contract terms generally, for example reviewing a range of
firms’ contracts for a particular product. This would consider the
fairness and clarity of firms’ contract terms under the regulations,
alongside firms’ practices under wider regulatory requirements.
Our approach to the assessment of terms under the regulations is
set out in the UNFCOG module in our Handbook.
Financial crime and intelligence
All consumer credit firms are required to put in place systems
and controls to mitigate the risk that they may be used to further
financial crime. We look at the measures firms take to monitor,
detect and prevent financial crime risk effectively. We also collect
and act upon the intelligence we receive about financial crime risks,
for example from whistle-blowers, and take each individual case
seriously.
Since 1 April 2014 we have been responsible for supervising how
consumer credit firms that are subject to the Money Laundering
Regulations comply with them.
39 Financial promotions and adverts: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/financial-promotions-and-adverts
36 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
We have published a guide for firms40 which sets out what firms can do to reduce
their financial crime risk. The Joint Money Laundering Steering Group41 is also a
useful resource for firms.
How we carry out supervision
We have a number of powers which we can use to supervise firms, for example
powers to require firms to provide us with information. In the first instance, we
prefer to work with firms on a voluntary basis.
Whatever our reason for interacting with your firm, there are a wide range of
ways in which we may engage with you. For example, we might send you a
request for information and documents about your firm; we may meet you or
interview particular individuals within your firm; or we may also review customer
case files to understand your customers’ experiences when dealing with you. In
some cases we may wish to visit your premises and observe your operations in
practice.
If we find failings in your firm, we will engage with you to resolve them and we
may ask you to take immediate action to prevent any further harm occurring in
the meantime. If the issue is serious we may seek formal commitments from you
that you will do this in a timely and effective way. For example, we might seek
an attestation from senior decision-makers within your firm, or we may discuss
the voluntary imposition of requirements on your permissions or a voluntary
amendment of your permissions.
In some cases we may require a Skilled Persons Review (also known as a Section
166 review as the power to require these reviews is set out in s166 of FSMA). We
use these powers to obtain an independent expert view of aspects of a firm’s
activities that cause us concern or where we require further analysis. Further
detail on when we may use these powers can be found in SUP 5.
Supervisors will generally aim to resolve issues in firms without the use of our formal
powers. However, where appropriate, supervisors will refer firms to enforcement
for severe and/or repeated breaches of our standards and expectations.
40 Handbook: FC Financial Crime: A guide for firms: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/FC/
41 Money Laundering Regulations Steering Group: http://www.jmlsg.org.uk/
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 3377

Guide for consumer credit firms
Market studies
Market studies are a tool we use to examine structural issues in markets.
These are led by our Competition Department. Market studies analyse the
effectiveness of competition in different markets, and identify areas where
we can intervene to promote more effective competition.
The purpose of a market study is to understand whether competition
is working effectively in the interests of consumers. As part of a market
study we may ask firms for information and data about their activities. The
purpose of this is to build a picture of what is happening in the market as a
whole, rather than to supervise whether your firm is meeting our regulatory
standards. However, if the information you provide does reveal a concern
about standards within your firm we may follow up with supervisory action.
Regulatory Reporting
We collect data from all regulated firms on a regular basis. This
is a key part of our approach to supervision. The information we
collect is an important aid to our work: it identifies trends and
emerging risks and helps us to monitor compliance.
All regulated firms are required to report information to us. This
needs to be provided online on a regular basis – typically six
monthly or annually depending on the nature and size of your
business.
The data we ask for is monstly financial information and
information about your transaction volumes. The reporting forms
which apply to consumer credit firms are set out in the table
below. Which forms apply to you will depend on what regulated
activities you carry out. Firms with limited permission (other than
large not-for-profit debt advice bodies) will only be required to
submit form CCR007.
There are some specific and more frequent reporting requirements
for firms carrying our particular activities. Home collected credit
firms and HCSTC lenders are required to send us product sales
38 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
data on the loans that they make on a quarterly basis. Credit
broking firms that charge fees must notify us every three months
of their domain (website address) names. This is via reporting
form CCR008.
Complaints
Firms with full permission need to report details of complaints
either six monthly or annually. Six monthly reporting applies
unless the firm only holds permission to carry on credit-related
regulated activities and revenue arising from such activities is £5
million or less a year.
These requirements do not apply to firms with limited permission
unless the firm is a large not-for-profit debt advice body. A firm
with limited permission (except large not-for-profit debt advice
bodies) is required to submit information to us about the number
of complaints it has received in relation to credit-related regulated
activities under the reporting requirements in SUP 16.12.
Submitting your reports
GABRIEL42 (GAthering Better Regulatory Information ELectronically)
is our online regulatory reporting system for the collection, validation
and storage of firms’ regulatory data. One you are authorised you
will need to register on GABRIEL. The system will select for you the
reports that your firm needs to complete, based on the information
you have provided to us. You will receive an email reminder when
your report is due. More information and guidance about reporting
is available on our website.43
Regulatory reporting is essential and firms not completing
their reporting requirements by the due data are subject to an
administrative fee of £250. If a firm still does not complete and
submit its return, we may also take enforcement action. Ultimately,
this could result in a firm losing its authorisation.
42 GABRIEL Reporting: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/systems-reporting/gabriel
43 Systems and reporting: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/systems-reporting
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 3399

Guide for consumer credit firms
Reporting Which firms does this form
form apply to? Content overview
Financial All firms that are not already Key financial figures
data submitting financial data and do not including capital, assets,
(CCR001) have limited permission (but applies to liabilities, exposures,
large not-for-profit debt advice bodies income and profit.
subject to the prudential requirements
that apply to debt management firms)
or permission only to carry on peer-to-
peer lending platform activity.
Volumes All firms that do not have limited For each activity a firm
(CCR002) permission (but applies to large not- undertakes, revenue,
for-profit debt advice bodies subject to customer and transaction
the prudential requirements that apply volume, and an indication
to debt management firms). of the main method used
to generate income
Lenders All firms with permission to enter into Breakdown of value and
(CCR003) a regulated credit agreement as a amount of loans, arrears
lender or to exercise the lender’s rights and interest rates.
and duties under a regulated credit
agreement.
Debt Debt management firms and large not- Capital requirement and
management for-profit debt advice bodies subject to capital resources. Number
(CCR004) the prudential requirements that apply of debt management
to debt management companies. plans ending early.
Client money Debt management firms and not-for- Highest balance and
and assets profit debt advice bodies. number of clients.
(CCR005) Amount of client
money held for longer
than 5 days.
Debt Firms undertaking debt collecting Breakdown of number
collection including peer-to-peer lending and value of debts by
(CCR006) platforms that collect debts due under stage of placement.
loans they facilitate.
Key data Firms with limited permission, other Credit-related income,
(CCR007) than an authorised professional total revenue, number
firm, or a not-for-profit debt advice of transactions and
body, that is subject to full reporting complaints, main credit-
requirements. related regulated activity.
40 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Making changes to your business
Once your firm is authorised, if you wish to make changes which
affect the basis on which your original application for authorisation
was approved, you will need to apply to us for prior approval. These
changes include:
• a change in the regulated activities you wish to carry out such
that you require different permission
• a change in the ownership of your firm
• a change in the legal status of your firm
• changes to your approved persons
• cancelling your permissions because you no longer intend to
carry out regulated activities
You are required to simply notify us in the case of less significant
changes, for example:
• changes to your contact details
• changes to your appointed representatives (including the
appointment and removal of appointed representatives)
More information is available on our website.44
Notifying us when serious events occur
You are required to nofity us of any matter that has, or potentially
has, a serious regulatory impact, that we would reasonably expect
to be made aware of, for example:
• significant breaches of our standards
• civil, criminal or disciplinary proceedings against your firm
44 Change of legal status: https://www.the-fca.org.uk/change-legal-status
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 4411

Guide for consumer credit firms
• fraud, errors or other irregularities
• insolvency, bankruptcy and “winding up” of the business
• material changes to your business model
Notifications should be made either by email or post and should
include a SUP 15 Notification Form45 which can be downloaded
from the Handbook website.
Notification forms can be emailed as attachments to firm.
queries@fca.org.uk or posted to our Head Office address
marked for the attention of the Customer Contact Centre.
Fees
Other than credit unions and community finance
A firm with interim
organisations with an annual income under
permission does
£250,000, and all not-for-profit debt advice
not have to pay
bodies, all firms have to pay an annual fee (known
an annual fee for
as a periodic fee). A firm with interim permission
consumer credit
does not have to pay an annual fee for consumer
until it becomes
credit until it becomes authorised.
authorised.
Your annual fee invoice will include fees and
levies on behalf of other regulatory bodies, such
as the Financial Ombudsman Service and Money Advice Service.
We set the fees payable at the end of June and issue invoices from
July each year. You should pay your annual fee within 30 days of
the invoice date; otherwise you may incur a late payment charge.
45 SUP 15 Notification Form: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/SUP/15/Ann4.html
42 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Enforcement
Enforcement works alongside our
other regulatory tools, such as
setting new policy standards, market
studies into competition, controlling
the gateway through authorisations
and monitoring on-going conduct
through supervision.
We have wide ranging powers to tackle breaches of our rules and
other legal requirements, including the CCA and FSMA. The tools
we have at our disposal include:
• withdrawing a firm’s authorisation
• banning individuals from carrying on regulated activities
• suspending firms or individuals from undertaking regulated
activities
• fining firms or individuals who breach our rules or commit
market abuse
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 4433

Guide for consumer credit firms
• applying to the Court for injunctions and restitution orders
• bringing criminal prosecutions to tackle financial crime, such
as insider dealing or unauthorised business
Our strategy is to use these powers to achieve ‘credible deterrence’.
Credible deterrence means that we try to improve standards
across the market by showing there are meaningful consequences
to breaking our rules.
The factors we consider when determining which cases to pursue
are set out in our referral criteria.
We follow a set enforcement procedure and have published
a flowchart46 on our website that explains how a typical
enforcement case works where the case is dealt with through our
administrative powers under FSMA.
This includes several procedures in contrast to those followed by
the OFT. For example, our standard practice is to send a Notice of
Appointment of Investigators to the firm or individual concerned
in most circumstances, and to use statutory powers to require
individuals to answer questions in interview. You can read about
these in Chapter 4 of our Enforcement Guide in our Handbook.
We will publish information about an enforcement case in a
Final Notice or Decision Notice where we consider it appropriate.
Publishing outcomes and notices is important to ensure our
decision making is transparent. It informs the public and helps
maximise the deterrent effect of enforcement action.
All of our enforcement decisions must be confirmed by a
Regulatory Decisions Committee (RDC), which is made up of
industry practitioners to represent the public interest.
46 FCA Enforcement Information Guide: https://www.fca.org.uk/static/documents/enforcement-information-guide.pdf
44 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Our staff will submit their proposal and the supporting evidence
to the RDC. The RDC will review the evidence and, in most cases,
seek the views of the relevant firm or individual, before coming
to a decision.
The RDC is independent from the FCA team that has conducted
an investigation or considered an application for authorisation.
This is required by law and helps to ensure that decisions are fair.
More information about how the RDC works47 is on our website.
Trading standards services
We will work closely with the LATSS and DETINI and have signed
a Memorandum of Understanding with them to set out formally
how we will work together. We aim to cooperate by sharing
information where appropriate and where we legally can.
This exchange of information will help us regulate consumer
credit firms generally and ensure that we take a consistent
and coordinated approach in relation to issues such as unfair
contract terms. It will also help identify potential poor conduct
in relation to consumer credit, which we can take forward in our
supervision work.
We will also work together to ensure that we take a consistent and
coordinated approach in relation to potential regulatory breaches.
47 FAQ: How the RDC works: http://www.fca.org.uk/about/structure/committees/rdc-faqs
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 4455

Guide for consumer credit firms
Annex: Controlled functions for
consumer credit
Table 1: Controlled functions
Significant
influence
functions Responsibilities Who does this function apply to?
Governing Direct the firm’s Applies to individuals performing these
functions affairs, for functions in all authorised firms except:
(known as CF1 example a CEO
• firms with limited permission
to CF6) or non-executive
director. • some authorised professional firms in
respect of their non-mainstream regulated
credit activity (this may include, for
example, law firms that on an incidental
basis recover consumer credit related debts
on behalf of their clients)
• sole traders
Also apply to appointed representatives
(except introducer appointed representatives
and sole traders which do not have to have
any approved persons). If the appointed
representative is carrying on the regulated
activity as a secondary activity rather than as
a principal activity (for example, an appointed
representative motor dealer that is carrying
on credit broking as a secondary activity) it
only has to have one individual approved for
a governing function for that activity.
46 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Significant
influence
functions Responsibilities Who does this function apply to?
Apportionment Ensure that Applies to individuals performing this function
and oversight the significant in the following firms:
function business
• firms with limited permission (except for
(known as CF8) responsibilities
not-for profit debt advice bodies)
are clearly and
appropriately • some authorised professional firms in
divided among respect of their non-mainstream regulated
the directors credit activity.
and senior
managers of the It does not apply to sole traders unless they
firm and that employ people who have to be approved
they oversee the persons.
implementation Most limited permission firms are required
and maintenance to have one individual approved for the
of appropriate apportionment and oversight function
systems and but will not be required to have any other
controls individuals approved in respect of their credit-
related activities.
Compliance Oversight of the Applies to individuals performing this function
oversight firm’s regulatory in the following authorised firms (including
function compliance and sole traders that employ staff involved in
(known as reporting to the the carrying on of the regulated business
CF10) governing body activities):
about that.
• debt management businesses
• credit repair businesses.
Money The firm’s money Applies to individuals performing this function
laundering laundering in authorised firms (including sole traders that
reporting reporting. employ staff involved in the carrying on of the
function regulated business activities) that are covered
(known as by the Money Laundering Regulations. It does
CF11) not apply to ‘limited permission lenders’.
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 4477

Guide for consumer credit firms
Significant
influence
functions Responsibilities Who does this function apply to?
Systems Reporting to Applies to individuals performing these
and controls the governing functions in all authorised firms except:
function body of a firm
• firms with limited permission
(known as on how it
CF28) complies with its • some authorised professional firms in
internal systems respect of their non-mainstream regulated
and controls credit activity
requirements
and the firm’s Although this function may apply to sole
risk exposure. traders, it is unlikely to do so other than in
circumstances in which the sole trader has
a substantial number of employees involved
in the carrying on of regulated business
activities.
Responsibility for this function can be
assumed by a person already approved to
undertake a governing function other than
the non-executives. Individuals in firms
regulated by both the FCA and the PRA
would need to apply to the PRA for approval
for the systems and controls function.
Significant Only applies Applies to individuals performing these
management to firms where functions in all authorised firms except:
function significant
• firms with limited permission
(known as responsibility
CF29) is given to a • some authorised professional firms in
senior manager respect of their non-mainstream regulated
of a relatively credit activity
substantial
business. Although this function may apply to sole
traders, it is unlikely to do so other than in
circumstances in which the sole trader has
a substantial number of employees involved
in the carrying on of regulated business
activities.
We anticipate that relatively few consumer
credit firms will need approval for an
individual to perform this function, as in most
firms, the individuals approved for the above
functions are likely to exercise significant
influence over the firms’ business.
48 Financial Conduct Authority

Guide for consumer credit firms
Significant
influence
functions Responsibilities Who does this function apply to?
CASS Person Applies to a director or senior manager in
operational responsible for a large debt management firm (including a
oversight the firm’s client sole trader) and a large not-for-profit debt
function asset oversight. advice bodies. In each case ‘large’ means the
(known as firm holds a minimum of £1 million of client
CF10a) money at some point during the last calendar
year or projects that it will hold during this
time.
Smaller profit-seeking debt management
firms and not-for-profit debt advice bodies
(holding less than £1 million) need a director
or senior manager to be responsible for
overseeing the firm’s client assets.
For profit-seeking debt management firms,
this person must be someone who has been
approved for a ‘significant influence function’
(most likely a governing function).
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 4499

Guide for consumer credit firms
FFiinnaanncciiaall CCoonndduucctt AAuutthhoorriittyy 5511

This guide is for consumer credit firms
in particular those that are new to being
regulated by us. It provides a high-level
summary of how we will regulate you.
© Financial Conduct Authority 2015
25 The North Colonnade
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HS
Telephone: 0800 111 6768
Website: www.fca.org.uk
All rights reserved