The Amazon Barclaycard
terms and conditions
Credit Card Agreement regulated by 3. Fees that we charge
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The fees that apply to your account are as follows:
Account usage fees Amount
1. Introduction
This agreement is between us (Barclays Bank UK PLC, Barclaycard Centre, • Cash transactions (including cash withdrawals) 2.99% (minimum of £2.99)
1234 Pavilion Drive, Northampton, NN4 7SG) and you, the person who signed • Non-sterling purchases 2.99%
this document. Barclaycard is a trading name of Barclays Bank UK PLC. • Balance transfer Depends on the offer
2. Your interest rates • Money transfer Depends on the offer
We charge different interest rates on different balances. Your simple standard Account usage fees Amount
and cash interest rates will move up and down in line with changes to the
Bank of England Base Rate (or any rate which replaces it). We call this rate the Late payment – you’ll be charged this fee when
Base Rate. We’ll explain more about this in the ‘Changes due to the Bank of you don’t make one of your monthly payments
England Base Rate’ section. When you use your card, the relevant amount is by your payment due date. We won’t charge this £12
added to a particular balance, depending on the type of transaction you use fee more than four times in a year
the card for.
We may also make promotional offers on certain types of transactions There is no maintenance fee for this account.
you make on your account. The balance linked to these transactions (your
‘promotional balance’) may have interest rates which are different to your
simple standard and cash interest rates. Before we make a promotional offer We may also charge you an amount to cover any other reasonable costs or
available, we’ll tell you the terms of the promotion. There’s more information losses we must pay if you break this agreement.
below on the interest rate(s) associated with promotional balances.
Fees that third parties may charge
We tell you about all the charges that we make, but using your card might
Your balance includes: Interest rate mean that you have to pay other amounts to someone else. For example,
some organisations may charge an extra fee for credit card payments.
Standard balance – this is made up of the
following, unless promotional terms apply 4. Monthly payment
instead: We’ll send you a monthly statement to tell you what the minimum amount
• Purchases (Your standard rate you need to pay is and when the payment is due.
• Balance transfers is shown on your You must pay at least your minimum payment in sterling by the due date
• Money transfers monthly statement) shown on your statement every month. Remember - if you only make your
minimum payment each month, it’ll take longer and cost more to pay off your
• Interest and account usage fees on the above
balance. You can always choose to pay more.
• Default fees*
Your payment due date will be at least 20 days after we produce your
statement. You can ask us to change your payment due date. If you do this
Cash balance – this is made up of the following:
it’ll also change your statement date. You can’t change your payment date if
• Cash withdrawals (this includes any fees other you’ve changed it twice in the last 12 months, or you’ve already changed it
people or organisations may charge for the during the previous statement period.
withdrawal)
Your minimum payment will be the highest of the following:
• Buying currency or traveller’s cheques (Your standard rate
• £5 (or the total outstanding balance if it’s less than £5)
• Cash-like transactions, including: is shown on your
- Sending money orders or wire transfers monthly statement) • (A percentage*) of your balance
• An amount equal to 100% of the interest, plus 100% of any default fees,
- Buying digital currencies, including
that have been added to your account since your last statement, plus (a
cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin
percentage*) of the rest of your balance
• Interest and account usage fees on all of the
above * This percentage is unchanged and can be found on your monthly statement.
Promotional balance – this is made up of the But, if you’ve agreed to set up a paydown plan (please see the ‘Paydown plans’
following: section, below), your minimum payment will be your paydown plan payment
each month instead. This will be the same amount each month (except for
• Transactions with promotional terms, which
your final payment, which may be smaller) until your paydown plan ends.
we will tell you about before you make the
transaction such as: If you’re on a reduced-repayment plan or arrangement, during the plan or
Depends on the offer arrangement your minimum payment will be the amount we’ve told you.
- Purchases
Any refunds you receive on your account won’t count towards your minimum
- Balance transfers
payment amount. You must still pay the full minimum payment unless the
- Money transfers refund reduces your balance to an amount which is less than your minimum
• Interest and fees on the above promotions payment, in which case you’ll only have to pay the remaining balance.
Legal information – example of the total amount you’d have to pay
and the annual percentage rate (APR)
We’ll tell you the total amount you would have to pay and the APR when
you first enter into the agreement with us. This legal information is given
based on assumptions we make at that time.

5. Using your account You can choose whether or not you want to allow us to increase the credit
Using the app and contacting us limit on your account. If we increase your credit limit, we’ll always tell you first
and give you 30 days’ notice unless you’ve asked for the increase yourself.
Your account is designed to be used digitally. This means that you’ll need to When you receive this notice, you can tell us not to increase your credit limit.
use the app to manage your account and benefit from account features. It’s If you prefer, you can tell us that we must always check with you before
also the main way we’ll contact you and give you important messages and increasing your credit limit.
information (along with text messages and emails). To make sure that you can
manage your account and we can keep in touch with you, it’s important that You can also tell us not to increase your credit limit at any time in the future
you keep the app up to date. We’ll only ever communicate with you in English. or tell us at any time if you want to reduce your credit limit. We won’t increase
your credit limit if we think you can’t afford to make the repayments.
If you ever need to get in touch with us for any reason, the best way is to You mustn’t go over your credit limit, but if you do your credit records may be
contact us using the chat service in the app. affected – this means it might be harder or more expensive for you to borrow
in the future.
If you can’t use the app, you can call us on 0800 151 0157.
8. Your interest charges
Changing your details
When we charge interest
Please keep us up to date with the name, mobile number, email address,
If you pay your balance (excluding any promotional balance or late payment
residential address, landline number, nationality and date of birth for you
fees) in full by your payment due date, the following will apply that month:
and your additional cardholders (who must be based in the British Isles). We’ll
always communicate with you using the app and the most recent contact • We won’t charge interest on any purchases or cash balance
details you’ve given us. We’re not responsible if you don’t get information • We’ll only charge interest on your non 0% promotional balance
because you haven’t told us about a change to your contact details.
If you or any additional cardholders are living overseas, please let us know so How we charge interest
that we can contact you. We may close your account if you’re living overseas We work out how much interest we charge each month using a simple
or if you ask us to communicate with you using a Post Office box address. interest rate. Your interest is calculated on a daily basis and added to your
We’ll give you notice in line with these terms and conditions if we do this. account each month on the date we produce your monthly statement. We’ll
charge interest on interest if you don’t repay your total outstanding balance in
6. Your card
full each month (this is known as compound interest).
With your account, we’ll give you a digital card which you can access in the If interest is due, we’ll charge it from the date each amount is added to the
app linked to your account. You’ll be able to use the digital card in some account. Interest continues to be charged on all outstanding balances until
digital wallets, and the digital card details for online transactions. We’ll also you pay off your balance or a court orders you to pay off your balance. This
send you a physical card. All physical cards are our property. If we give you means that when an amount is overdue for payment, we continue to charge
a physical card, we may ask you to activate it before you use it to make interest at the rate that applies to that particular balance.
transactions.
Default fees are fees that we charge if you don’t make a monthly payment
By the word ‘card’, we mean any credit card or any alternative to a credit on time. If we charge a default fee, we’ll let you know. We don’t charge any
card that we give you to make transactions under this agreement including interest on default fees.
a digital card and any physical card. We tell you more about your card in the
‘Using your account’ section of this agreement. If we give you a physical card
and you need a replacement, we may charge you a fee for the new card – for Understanding the interest and fees on your account
example, if the card is lost or damaged. • Please make sure you consider the interest and fees that will be
Giving you another card added to your account at the time of producing your statement
We may give you another card as a replacement or extra card at any time – • You should make sure you keep enough available balance to not go
this includes a new digital card as well as a new physical card if you have one. over your credit limit when these are added
It may have different features from your existing card, including a different • To help you do this, an estimate of the interest that will be charged
number, branding or card scheme. the following month is included on your statement
From time to time, we may offer you an upgrade or a change to a feature
of your card. We’ll tell you the terms of any upgrade or change you can
9. Changes due to the Bank of England Base Rate
choose. This may sometimes include new or increased fees as well as extra
or changed benefits. If you choose the upgrade or change, we’ll amend the Your simple standard and cash interest rates will move up and down in line
terms of this agreement to reflect the change from the date of the upgrade or with the Base Rate. If you’re a new customer, this will start from the day after
change. We may also send you another card or upgrade your account to give your account is opened. You can find a link to the current Base Rate in the
you extra benefits. ‘frequently asked questions’ section of the app.
Your promotional interest rate will not move in line with the Base Rate.
When you shouldn’t use your card
You mustn’t use your card for any illegal purposes or to make certain types When changes take effect
of restricted transactions. We’ll give you information about which types of If the Base Rate changes, your simple standard and cash interest rates will
transaction are not allowed from time to time. You can’t use your card for change in line with the new Base Rate on the day after your next statement
gaming transactions. Gaming transactions include gambling, betting and date. Your statement date is the date on which your monthly statement is
other transactions such as buying lottery tickets or gaming chips or spending normally produced. We’ll tell you when this is after your account is opened.
money on a gambling website or at a gambling establishment. Sometimes we
won’t be able to stop a gaming transaction and it’ll be added to your account. If you’re a new customer, any changes in the Base Rate which take place
If this happens it’ll be added to the cash balance and we’ll charge the account before your first statement date won’t affect your simple standard and cash
usage fee that applies to cash transactions and no minimum charge will apply. interest until the day after your second statement date.
Your card is for personal use and you shouldn’t use it for business purposes. Telling you about changes to the Base Rate
If we’re worried your card is being misused, we can put a stop on it. Because your interest rates will move in line with the Base Rate, we’ll send
you a summary each year telling you how the Base Rate has changed over the
7. Credit limit
past year. If you get monthly statements, you’ll be able to see the information
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage about the Base Rate changes on those.
and history, information from other parts of the Barclays Group, information
If you or we close your account, we won’t move your interest rates in line
we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other information we
with the Base Rate. You won’t be able to make any more transactions on your
think is relevant.
account after you tell us to close your account, and you must repay us your
We tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. We’ll outstanding balances within a reasonable period.
then review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, we’ll let you
If the Bank of England Base Rate is no longer available or changes
know.
significantly, we’ll decide whether it’s reasonable to replace it with another
Managing your credit limit rate or whether to make other changes to how we calculate interest. In both
cases, we’ll tell you about these changes beforehand.
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to
repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this 10. Changes that we may make to your standard and
wouldn’t be appropriate (but, we may choose to give you up to seven days’
cash interest rates
notice). We won’t reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding
balance, plus any transactions authorised but not yet charged to your As well as your simple standard and cash interest rates moving up and down
account. in line with the Base Rate, your interest rate may change for the reasons set
out below.
In some cases, we may allow an increase in your credit limit for a short
period, which we’ll tell you. If we do this, we’ll reduce your limit back down at Any change that we make will be reasonably proportionate to the effect the
the end of that period, even if that reduces your limit to less than your total change has on us. We won’t change interest rates to cover the same cost
outstanding balance. twice.

Changes due to risk 13. Making transactions
We may increase or decrease your interest rate (or rates) based on the risk of You can use your card to make transactions such as purchases, cash
lending to you. Some of the things that may affect our decision are: withdrawals or cash-like transactions, balance or money transfers, and any
other use that we allow, including using another service provider to make
• If you don’t keep to these terms and conditions, such as failing to make
an online payment on your behalf, with your permission. But, if you want to
your minimum payment by the payment due date or going over your
make cash withdrawals from ATMs, you’ll need to ask us to give you a physical
credit limit
card if you don’t already have one.
• The way you manage and use your account or any other account you have
with us. We’ll look at how you make repayments, your repayment history, If you want to make a transaction using your card or card details, you’ll need
and how much of your credit limit you use to approve it so that we can check it’s genuine. You can do this using one of
the following:
• Information that we get from others such as credit reference agencies, our
own information and information from within the Barclays Group • The card itself if you have a physical card or another device such as a
mobile phone, to confirm your identity
Changes due to legal or regulatory changes
• A password, passcode, personal identifier, codes, personal identification
We may change your interest rates, including making changes to the way we number (PIN)
charge interest, if there’s a change in legal or regulatory requirements that
• Biometric data such as voice recognition or behavioural data
affects us.
• A combination of the above, such as your card and PIN
Changes for other reasons
How we authorise your transactions
As this contract has no fixed end date, from time to time we may need to
make changes for reasons that aren’t set out here. As long as you can end this When deciding whether we should authorise a transaction or not, we take
agreement without charge, we may make changes to interest rates, or change into account amounts of money that have already been authorised but
the way we charge interest for reasons that aren’t set out here. haven’t already been added to your account, as well as interest, fees or
charges that you might have to pay.
Giving you notice of changes
When you make a transaction from your account, we can’t change or cancel
If we make a change to your interest rates (other than a change caused by the
it unless you withdraw your approval. You can only do this if the transaction
Base Rate), we’ll tell you about the change and when it’ll apply. We’ll do this
is approved for a future date (for example, if you set up a regular payment)
either by including a message in the app or on your monthly statement or by
by contacting us or the retailer by the end of the business day before the
sending you an email, but sometimes we may send a separate written notice
transaction is due to be made.
by post, SMS message or any other written communication.
We’ll give you at least 30 days’ notice unless we reduce any of your interest If you contact us to cancel a regular payment, you may also want to contact
rates, in which case, we may give you less notice. the retailer to ask them to stop requesting payments. We’ll try our best to
stop the transaction from going through - but if for any reason it’s taken after
Let us know if you decide that you want to close your account after the
you’ve asked for it not to be, we’ll refund the amount and any related interest
change takes place.
or fees.
If we increase one of our interest rates (and this isn’t caused by a change to
the Base Rate) and you tell us within 60 days that you don’t accept this change When we may refuse transactions
and want to end the agreement, the existing interest rate will continue to We may refuse to authorise a transaction if any of the following applies:
apply until you repay your outstanding balances. In this case, you won’t be
• The transaction seems unusual compared with the way you normally use
able to make any more transactions on your account after you give us notice
your card
that you don’t accept the change, and you must repay us your outstanding
balances within a reasonable period. • We reasonably suspect fraud or illegal activity
• You’ve reported your card as lost or stolen
11. Changes to your promotional interest rates
• We reasonably consider this is necessary to protect the security of your
We won’t change any promotional interest rates during the time we’ve agreed account
to keep them fixed.
• We reasonably believe the transaction would damage our reputation
At the end of the promotional period, we’ll transfer any outstanding
• We’ve told you that we don’t allow that type of transaction
promotional balance to your
• We need to restrict the use of your account for any of the reasons set out
standard balance or your cash balance (as appropriate) and we’ll start
below
charging interest on it at your standard rate or any cash rate that applies.
• The transaction relates to gambling, betting or gaming
12. Changes to the other terms and conditions (not
Also, we may refuse a transaction if there’s a risk you’ll go over either your
including interest rates)
credit limit or your cash limit. By ‘cash limit’ we mean the limit on the value
As well as the changes to interest rates described above, we may make of transactions that get allocated to your cash balance. This might not be the
changes to other terms and conditions of this agreement (including fees) for same as your credit limit. If we authorise a transaction that would take you
any of the following reasons: over your cash limit or your credit limit, it doesn’t mean we’ve agreed to an
• If we reasonably consider that it makes the terms easier to understand or increase in your limit.
fairer to you
If we refuse a transaction but you’re not sure why, you can get in touch with
• If we reasonably consider that the change will benefit you or isn’t to your us to find out. If we refuse a transaction, this agreement will continue, and we
disadvantage and wouldn’t cost you any more won’t be responsible for any loss or damages caused as a result.
• To reflect reasonable changes to the way we run our business because
Restricting the use of your account
of a change in the banking or financial system, in technology, or in the
systems we use We may prevent or limit the use of your account, stop service providers from
making payments on your behalf, or end your ability to borrow more under
• To reflect legal or regulatory requirements that apply to us
this agreement, if we reasonably consider this is necessary for any of the
Any change that we make will be reasonably proportionate to the effect the following reasons:
change has on us. We won’t change or introduce any fees to cover the same
• To protect the security of your account
cost twice.
• Because we’re worried there may be unauthorised or fraudulent use of
As this contract has no fixed end date, from time to time we may need to
your account
make changes for reasons that aren’t set out here. As long as you can end
this agreement without charge, we may make changes to this agreement for • Because we reasonably suspect that you’re using your card in a way we’ve
reasons that aren’t set out here. told you isn’t allowed
• Because the risk of you not paying any current or future balance on your
Giving you notice of changes
account has significantly increased
We’ll tell you about any changes under this section either in the app or on
• Because you’ve don’t have an active app registration to manage your
your monthly statement or by sending you an email but sometimes we may
account or receive important messages and information
send a separate written notice by post, SMS message or any other written
communication. We’ll give you at least 30 days’ notice unless the change is to • Because we haven’t been able to contact you or send you information to a
your advantage, in which case we may give you less notice. valid email address or phone number, or we believe you no longer live at
the address we have on record for you, which means we might not be able
If we make any changes under this section, we’ll let you know when the
to contact you
changes will apply to your account. Let us know if you want to end this
agreement because of one of the changes we make. You can do this without • Because you’ve told us that you no longer want to receive paperless
charge. If you decide that you want to close your account after these changes communications
take place, you’ll need to let us know. These changes will still apply until the • Because allowing you to use your account means we might break a law,
agreement ends. If you stop using your card, changes that only apply if you regulation, code or other duty that applies to us, or could expose us or
use the card won’t affect you, but other changes will apply until you’ve repaid other Barclays companies to action or criticism from any government,
the full balance. regulator or law-enforcement organisation
• You’ve used a feature of your account to tell us that you don’t want to
make future transactions or a certain type of transaction

• You’ve set up a paydown plan If you make the request on a nonworking day or after the cut-off time, we’ll
• You’ve been in persistent debt (where you’ve paid more in interest, process it on the next working day and the payment will reach the receiving
fees and charges than you have paid towards paying back what you’ve bank on the next working day after that.
borrowed) for two consecutive 18-month periods, and you’ve not yet This will be the case unless you’ve agreed to make the payment on a future
repaid your balance date, in which case the payment will reach the receiving bank the next
You’ve set up a paydown plan on another account with us, but you haven’t working day after the date you’ve agreed with us.
kept to the terms and conditions of that plan Please bear in mind that you cannot transfer a balance to or from another
We’ll get in touch with you in the app, by phone, SMS message, or email to tell credit card account held with us (this includes our partner-branded cards).
you this has happened as soon as we can, but sometimes we may send you
14. Paydown plans
notice of this in the post.
If we’ve written to tell you that you are in, or have been in, persistent debt, we
Transaction limits may offer you a paydown plan. A paydown plan is intended to help you pay
If you have a physical card and use it to withdraw cash, we may limit the the amount you owe over a period of up to four years.
number of these transactions or the amount you can withdraw in a single day. Before you take out the paydown plan, we’ll tell you about any changes to
We may also restrict your cash limit to a certain percentage of your overall your interest rates. While you’re on the plan, we won’t increase your interest
credit limit. For contactless transactions there’s a maximum contactless limit. rates and they won’t change in line with the Bank of England Base Rate.
For each of these limits, we’ll let you know what they are and when they
Your paydown plan will cover the total amount that you owe at the time you
change.
take out the plan. All of the balances on your account will be included in the
Making transactions in a foreign currency paydown plan. Your payments will reduce your balances in the same order as
before you took out the paydown plan). Any transactions that are added to
Non-sterling transactions will be converted to sterling at a reference exchange
your account after the paydown plan is set up won’t form part of the plan and
rate. For purchases, this is made up of the payment scheme exchange rate
you’ll have to repay them after your paydown plan ends.
and the non-sterling purchase fee. For cash transactions, the non-sterling
purchase fee isn’t included. If you take out a paydown plan, your minimum payment will change from
your next statement. Your new minimum payment amount will be the same
The payment scheme exchange rate will be the Visa or Mastercard exchange
each month and will be set at a level that will allow you to repay all of the
rate. This is the rate that applied on the date the payment scheme processed
balances which are part of your paydown plan over the period of the plan.
the non-sterling transaction, which might be different from the rate when
While you’re on the paydown plan, you can choose to pay more than your
the transaction took place. The payment scheme exchange rate changes
minimum payment to reduce the length of your paydown plan, and you can
daily. Please visit our website or get in touch to find out details about these
repay your balance in full at any time.
exchange rates.
You can cancel the paydown plan at any time within six months of it starting.
You can see the cost of the currency conversion as a percentage mark-up
If you cancel your plan, your minimum payment will no longer be your
against the European Central Bank (ECB) rates for several currencies in the
paydown plan payment. From your next statement, we’ll start calculating your
‘Using Your Card Abroad’ section of our website. This information allows you
minimum payment in the normal way. If you don’t cancel your paydown plan,
to compare our rates against the rates issued by the ECB. You can use the
it’ll end you’ve repaid all of the balances which are covered by it.
information to compare rates offered by other providers.
All of the other terms and conditions of this agreement will remain the same,
Refunds so at the end of the paydown plan (or if you cancel the paydown plan), your
If you’ve agreed that a retailer in the European Economic Area can take a credit card agreement will carry on.
payment from your account (for example, if you’ve given your card details to
a retailer for the purpose of making a payment), you can ask us to refund a 15. Paying your bill
payment if all of the following conditions apply: All payments you make to us must be in sterling, cover at least your minimum
• The approval you gave didn’t specify the exact amount to be paid payment and arrive by the payment due date every month. To help make
this as easy as possible, your monthly statement will tell you exactly how and
• The amount charged to your account was more than you could
when to make payments, so they reach us on time.
reasonably have expected to pay, based on circumstances including
your previous spending patterns As this is a credit agreement, we’ll never pay interest to you for any positive
balance on the account and you should not keep money in your account. For
• You ask for a refund within eight weeks of the date when the payment
this reason, you need to make sure that you don’t pay more than your total
was charged to your account
outstanding balance. If you do, you’ll have a credit balance on the account.
You must give us any information we ask for that’s reasonably necessary for We can return this to you, rather than leaving it in the account. If you have
us to investigate whether you’re entitled to the refund. When we refund a a Barclays current account, you authorise us to return any credit balance
payment, we’ll also refund any related interest, fees and charges. to that account. If you don’t have a Barclays current account, you authorise
We’ll only refund any other transaction that you’ve approved if the retailer us to return any credit balance to the same current account you use to pay
asks us to. your bill. We’ll contact you before transferring the money to give you the
opportunity to ask us to return the balance to a different account.
You won’t be able to use a claim against the retailer (or anyone else) to make
a claim against us, or to refuse to pay us. But, this doesn’t affect your rights Statements and other information
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (or any replacement act or
We’ll produce a monthly statement that shows the transactions made since
rule).
your last statement and what payment is due to us that month. We may also
give you notices that we must give you by law in your statement or we may
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 give you these notices separately. These notices could be about overdue
Your rights under Section 75 mean that if you use your card to buy payments, default fees that have been added to your account, or a change
goods or services, and the cost of an individual item is between that we need to make to this agreement.
£100 and £30,000, if you have a claim against the supplier for We’ll also give you other information about your agreement with us.
misrepresentation or breaking the terms of any contract you have with This information includes copies of your terms and conditions and other
them, you can bring the same claim against us. notifications about your account. You can ask for a copy of your terms and
conditions at any time.
Transferring a balance We’ll generally use the app to give you this information and your statement
(unless we are required by law to send it to you by post) and sometimes we
Where we offer it, you may be able to make a balance transfer (this is a
may use post, SMS message or any other written communications. We’ll tell
transfer of funds from your card to reduce the amount you owe on other
you when your statement (and other information) is ready to view in the
credit cards, store cards or loans) or a money transfer (a transfer of funds
app. Once we’ve sent you a notice or other message using your most recent
from your card to another account) straight away. You must make sure that
contact details, we’ll assume that you’ve received it.
the details you give us about the account are clear and accurate.
If we can’t produce a statement for any reason, we’ll use your normal
If we believe there is a risk of money being sent to the wrong place because statement date to work out your next payment date and any interest to be
the details you’ve given for the transfer are unclear or inaccurate, we won’t added, and let you know what it is. You’ll need to get in touch with us straight
make the transfer for you. If the money is sent to the wrong place because away if you think we’ve made a mistake on your statement.
you gave us the wrong details, we’ll try to help you get your money back. But You agree that we can give you statements and other information to you in
if we can’t do that, you can ask us to give you all the relevant information that the app or by email, and that the documents we give you electronically can
we have so you can try to recover the money yourself. be in PDF or another format which allows you to print or save the document
to refer to in the future. We won’t change any documents which we give
If we make a mistake with your transfer, we’ll refund you the full transfer you electronically. You should print or save your online statements for your
amount and any other related interest, fees and charges. records. If we produce a document in our app, we’ll tell you when it is ready
If you ask us to make a transfer on a working day before the cut-off time, the to view.
payment will reach the receiving bank on the next working day. We’ll tell you If we need to send you any letters by law or under any regulations that apply,
the cut-off time when you ask for a balance transfer. we’ll continue to send these to your residential address in the UK.

How we allocate payments When you get in touch with us to tell us that your card has been lost, stolen or
If a payment you make is less than your total outstanding balance as shown misused, you must give us all the information you have about it. We may pass
on your statement, we’ll use it to reduce your balance. We’ll start with the any of this information on to the police if we think it’ll be useful.
balances charged at the highest interest rate first and then reduce the lower-
rate balances. If your card is lost or stolen, please contact us:
If you have more than one promotional balance on your account at the • Using the chat service in the app
same interest rate, we’ll use your payment to reduce the balance with the • By calling 0800 151 0157
promotional rate that ends first. Please keep your contact information up to date so that we can contact
When you make a payment, we’ll always reduce the balances that appear you in the case of suspected unauthorised use of your account.
on your statement before we use your payment to reduce the value of
transactions that haven’t yet appeared on your statement.
18. Closing your account
Missed payments
When you first open your account you can withdraw from this agreement
If you miss your minimum payment, we’ll add a late payment fee to your
without giving a reason by contacting us within 14 days from the later of, the
account. You can miss your minimum payment by not making a payment, by
day after we tell you the credit agreement has been made, or the day after
only paying part of your minimum payment or by making your payment late
you receive your credit agreement. Once you’ve told us you’re withdrawing
(after the payment due date). If you miss a payment, the following will also
from this agreement, you’ll have 30 days to pay back anything you’ve spent on
apply to your account:
your card. You can do this by contacting us and paying in the app. If you don’t
• You might not be eligible for offers or promotions repay us within 30 days, we may charge interest in line with the terms of this
• We may take the payment from any other Barclays accounts you have agreement.
• Your records with credit reference agencies might be affected, meaning it This agreement has no fixed term. This means it’ll continue until you or we
may be harder or more expensive for you to borrow in the future decide to close your account. You can close the account by contacting us, and
we can close the account by writing to you using the app, email or by post.
If you’ve missed a payment, your next statement will ask for the overdue
Unless we’re closing your account for one of the reasons below, we’ll give you
amount as well as your next minimum payment. We may move overdue
at least 2 months’ written notice before closing your account.
amounts from previous statements to the new balance on your next
statement to help you manage your account. These amounts will no longer be We may close your account and require immediate repayment of your total
overdue and won’t show as overdue amounts on your statement. When you outstanding balance for the reasons below:
do make a payment, we’ll use this to pay off overdue payments first. • If we reasonably believe that you’ve broken this agreement regularly or
If you’re having difficulty making payments, or if you think you’re likely to seriously
struggle making payments in the future, please get in touch with us as soon • If you’ve acted fraudulently
as you can.
• If the Home Office tells us that you’ve become a ‘disqualified person’ due
Missing payments could lead to legal action or insolvency proceedings such as to your immigration status
bankruptcy (although we rarely need to take these actions).
• If you become bankrupt (or enter into a voluntary arrangement with your
We may also sell your debt on to another organisation. If you have other creditors) or if we believe this is likely to happen
accounts with Barclays, we may use money in those accounts to pay us.
• If you’re living overseas, or if you ask us to communicate with you using a
Offsetting Post Office box address
If we owe you money, we may offset that amount against (use it to reduce) • If you die (in this case, we may ask your estate to make the repayment)
balances owed to us across this and other accounts.
We’ll always follow any legal requirements before we take any of these steps.
16. Additional cardholders
You may be able to ask for an additional card for your account to give to any If you or we close your account, the following will apply:
eligible person you nominate. By ‘additional card’ we mean any card (or cards) • You’ll need to make all payments that are due on your account.
we give to additional cardholders under this agreement. We’ll fix the interest rates, so they don’t change as a result of the
Your additional cardholders will not be able to ask us for information about Base Rate changes
your account. Additional cardholders do not have full access to the services • No more payments will be made from your account, so you’ll need to
you have as the main account holder. cancel any regular payments and make other arrangements to pay
As the account holder, you’ll always be responsible for paying the total • You won’t be able to reopen your account and you should destroy
outstanding balance on your account, and any use of the card by an any physical cards you have
additional cardholder – so you need to make sure all additional cardholders
are aware of this agreement and keep to it. You can tell us to cancel an
This agreement will continue until you’ve paid everything you owe, including
additional card, and you should destroy the card.
amounts added to your account after you have given or received notice about
the closure of your account. You can repay all or part of the balance at any
17. Protecting your card and details
time.
You must always keep your card and its details safe, and make sure no-one
else can use them without your permission. You should memorise your PIN Transferring this agreement
and other security information and keep them secret at all times. Never We may transfer to any other person any or all of our rights and duties under
write them down or record them in any way without first disguising the this agreement at any time (including, without limitation, our duty to lend to
information. It’s also important that you never let anyone else see your PIN you). We may do this without telling you. Your rights under this agreement
when you’re looking at it in the app and securely destroy any letter with your and your legal rights (including those under the Consumer Credit Act 1974)
PIN on. won’t be affected. You won’t be able to transfer any rights you have against us
You must only ever reveal the card number to make a transaction, access to anyone else.
your account, to report the loss or theft of the card, or if we ask you to.
Account maintenance fee refund
We’ll never call you to ask you for your passwords or full security details.
If you have to pay a yearly account maintenance fee and you close your
We’ll also never ask you to withdraw or hand over cash, or transfer money
account because we have removed or changed a benefit that came with your
to another account. When you call us or we call you, we’ll always first check
card and this has a negative effect on you, we will refund part of the account
we’re speaking to the right person by asking you several security questions
maintenance fee. We will calculate the refund from the date you tell us you
associated with your account.
want to close your account.
Lost or stolen cards We will also refund part of the account maintenance fee if we close your
If your card or card details are lost or stolen, if you think they may be account for a reason other than you breaking this agreement repeatedly or
misused, or if you think someone else may know your PIN, the first thing you seriously. We will calculate the refund from the date we close your account.
need to do is contact us as soon as possible. We’ll then put a stop on the card, Any refund we give you will be a fair proportion of the full yearly account
and you won’t be able to use the card again. maintenance fee, and will depend on the date your account closes. If you
You won’t be responsible for any transactions made with your card if it’s lost, have to pay a monthly maintenance fee for your account, we will not refund
stolen or, where you have a physical card, it’s misused before you receive it, any of the fee.
but you must tell us as soon as you become aware of a problem.
If someone uses a card and they received it with your or any additional
cardholder’s permission, you may be liable for all the transactions that take
place until you tell us that it’s being misused. This includes where you give
someone access to your account through our app, or give them access to
your digital card. You won’t be liable if you or any additional cardholder hasn’t
given permission for someone else to use the card. If you have a physical card
and you find it after reporting it as lost or stolen, please destroy it.

19. If things go wrong About us
Please get in touch with us straight away if you think there’s anything wrong We’re authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (12
with your account. Endeavour Square, Stratford, London, E20 1JN) to carry out activities relating
Unless we can’t for legal reasons, we’ll let you know if there’s a fraud or to consumer credit.
security risk to your account by sending you a secure message through our This information is available in large print, Braille and audio, by contacting
app, SMS message, emailing, writing or calling you. us. Barclaycard also welcomes calls via SignVideo for BSL users. For more
If we don’t meet our obligations under this agreement due to events outside information visit www.barclaycard.co.uk/accessibility.
of our control - such as machine failure, industrial disputes or because we All Barclaycard customer service lines are non-premium rate numbers. Calls
have to keep to a relevant law - we won’t be responsible for any losses and to 0800 numbers are free from UK landlines and personal mobiles, otherwise
costs caused. call charges may apply. Calls to 03 numbers use free plan minutes if available,
otherwise they cost the same as calls to 01/02 prefix numbers. International
Making a complaint
calls will be charged at a higher rate. Please check with your service provider
To make a complaint, please contact us. If anything’s unclear or if you’re for more information. Calls may be monitored or recorded to maintain high
unhappy with the way we handle your complaint, please get in touch with the levels of security and quality of service.
person or department who handled your complaint and they’ll do everything
Barclaycard is a trading name of Barclays Bank UK PLC. Barclays Bank UK PLC
they can to answer your questions and reach an agreement.
is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the
If you’re still unhappy and you’ve received a final response letter from us, you Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial
can ask for a review from the Financial Ombudsman Service. You can use the Services Register number: 759676). Registered in England No. 9740322.
details below to contact them and find out more information about how to Registered Office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
use their service.
Under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), we must give you appropriate
information about your transactions and consider any complaints you make
as soon as possible. If you think we’ve failed to do this, you can complain to
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For more information, visit the FCA
website.
Governing law
The law of England and Wales applies to these terms. Any dispute about this
agreement can be dealt with by an English or Welsh court unless your address
is in:
• Scotland (where it’ll be dealt with by the courts of Scotland)
• Northern Ireland (where it’ll be dealt with by the courts of Northern
Ireland)
Barclays Bank UK PLC is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services
Register No. 759676). Registered in England. Registered no. 9740322. Registered Office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP. July 2025.