Personal Loans
Terms and Conditions
How and when will we give you the loan? Can you repay the loan early?
When you have signed and returned the agreement, we will 7. You can repay all, or part, of the loan early by giving us
sign it. The agreement will start on that day and will end when notice in writing or by telephone. If you give us notice, we will
you have repaid everything you owe us. tell you the amount needed to repay the loan in full within the
next 28 days (or on a later date you tell us).
1. We will pay the loan into the current account you gave in
your application. This will usually be no more than five working 8. If you repay part of the loan early, your monthly repayment
days after the start date or the specific date you asked for. will stay the same but you may repay the loan more quickly.
If the loan is to repay any other borrowing from us, the amount If you repay the loan in full, the formula in the regulations we
in your current account will be what is left over (if anything) use to work out the reduced amount of interest we can charge,
after we have taken away the amount needed to repay works as if we charged interest at the rate that applies to the
those borrowings. loan from the date we gave you the loan to the date which is
28 days after you give us notice, plus an additional month if
2. If you repay more than the total amount payable, we will your loan is repayable over a period of more than 12 months.
close the account and return the amount you overpaid to For example, if the loan is for 36 months and you give us
another account you hold with us or by sending you a cheque. notice on 1 September that you want to repay the loan on
14 September, the amount required to repay the loan will
What is the cost of the loan?
include interest up to 29 October.
3. We charge a fixed amount of interest which we add to the
loan when we open the loan account. The total amount payable What are our rights if you miss a repayment
by you is the sum of interest and the loan. Although it is added or we have other concerns?
upfront, we work out interest (and the APR) as if the loan 9. There may be severe consequences if:
amount was reduced by each projected repayment, using the
interest rate, the number of monthly repayments and the period (a) you do not make repayments on time; or
of the loan. For these purposes, we assume we provide the (b) we find that any information you provided as part
loan one month (or, if you have an initial payment holiday, three of your loan application was materially incorrect or
months) before the first repayment date. misleading; or
(c) you are declared bankrupt or have similar proceedings
How must you repay the loan?
taken against you; or
4. You must make the monthly repayments set out in your
(d) we reasonably suspect any fraud or other criminal
agreement. If a repayment date is a non-working day you
activity in connection with this agreement and/or any
must make the repayment (or we will collect it) on the next
other facility or account that you have with us.
working day.
5. After you have made your first repayment, you can change In any of these cases, we can:
the monthly repayment date if you ask us. We will not be able
• demand immediate repayment of the loan;
to change your next repayment date but we will change all
subsequent repayment dates. You can only change the date • disclose information about you and the conduct of your loan
twice in any 12 month period. Changing the repayment date to licensed credit reference agencies (which may make it
will not affect the amount of interest on the loan. more difficult for you to borrow in future);
• restrict access to credit on other accounts you have with us
What should you do if your details change? (such as an overdraft or credit card);
6. If you change your name, address, telephone number or • bring legal action to recover the loan (which could include
email address you must tell us in writing or by calling us. We asking a court to order that, if a property you own is sold for
will use the most recent details you have given us to send any reason, some of the sale proceeds are used to repay this
information and contact you. loan); and
• require you to pay our reasonable costs and expenses for
taking action to obtain payment, including legal costs;
but we will give you advance notice and (unless the problem
cannot be fixed) the opportunity to fix the problem before
taking any of these steps.
Continued...

10. If we choose not to enforce our rights under this Important information
agreement at any time, we may enforce them at a later
date instead.
How to contact us
Can we use any other funds to repay the loan? If you need to contact us e.g. to update your contact details,
11. If we hold any money for you on another account (for ask for information about early repayment, tell us that you want
example if you have money in a current or savings account), to withdraw from the agreement or make a complaint please
we can use it to reduce or repay any sums you fail to pay under call 03457 404 404.
this agreement but only after we have checked that you have
enough left in your accounts to cover essential living costs. How can you keep track of what you owe?
We will give you advance notice and the opportunity to fix You may ask us at any time for a statement of account.
the problem first. This statement will be in the form of a table setting out:
• details (including the amounts) of the repayments
12. If you have provided security for any other borrowing from
you still owe;
us, it will not apply to the loan.
• the dates on which each repayment is due; and
Can we transfer our rights under this agreement? • a breakdown of each repayment showing how much
13. We may transfer our rights and our obligations under this comprises capital, interest and, if applicable, other charges.
agreement to a third party, including information about you
and how you have managed the loan which the third party We will not charge for the statement.
needs to know.
How can you make a complaint?
What law governs this agreement? If we do not give the standard of service you expect, or if you
14. This agreement, and everything that happens in relation think we have made a mistake, please let us know so we can
to this agreement before it is made, are governed by the laws, investigate, put matters right and take steps to prevent
and subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts, of it happening again.
England and Wales. We will communicate with you at all times
in English. If you are not happy with the way that we deal with your
complaint, you may be able to refer your complaint to the
Right to withdraw Financial Ombudsman Service by writing to Financial
You can withdraw from this agreement (without giving any Ombudsman Service, Exchange Tower, London E14 9SR,
reason) by sending written notice or calling us within 14 days, calling 0800 023 4 567 or 0300 123 9 123 or sending
starting the day after we confirm that we have signed the an email to complaint.info@financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
agreement. To tell us that you want to withdraw, please use
the details under Important Information below. How we are authorised
HSBC UK Bank plc is established and has its registered office
You must repay the loan, without delay, within 30 days, starting at 1 Centenary Square, Birmingham B1 1HQ. We are
the day after you tell us that you want to withdraw, together a financial services organisation and banking institution
with interest for each day until you repay. We won’t charge authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and
any interest if you repay the loan in full within 14 days starting regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential
the day we provide the loan. You can repay by calling us or by Regulation Authority. Our reference number is 765112.
visiting one of our branches.
You can check this on the Financial Services Register by visiting
If the loan is to repay any other borrowing from us, the Financial Conduct Authority website www.fca.org.uk
withdrawing from this agreement will not reinstate your or by contacting the Financial Conduct Authority on
existing agreements. These will end when we sign this 0800 111 6768. The Financial Conduct Authority is the
agreement and apply this loan to repay everything you supervisory authority under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
owe under those agreements. Its address is 12 Endeavour Square, London E20 1JN.
Accessibility
To find out more about our accessible services please visit www.hsbc.co.uk/accessibility or ask at any of our branches.
If you’d like this in another format such as large print, Braille or audio, please contact us.
A textphone service is also available for customers with hearing and/or speech impairments.
If you use your own textphone you can call us on 03457 125 563 (+44 207 088 2077 from overseas).
hsbc.co.uk
Issued by HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC UK Bank plc, Customer Information: PO Box 6201, Coventry CV9 3HW
DCP154 WA ©HSBC Group 2021. All Rights Reserved.