HSBC Credit
Card
Terms and conditions

2
Credit Card Agreement
regulated by the Consumer
Credit Act 1974
Who’s the agreement between?
Us (we might also say You (the Cardholder)
’We’ in this agreement)
HSBC UK Bank plc, The customer named on
Customer Service Centre the letter sent with this
BX8 2HB agreement
Where can you find the terms of our agreement?
The agreement is made up of two parts – the key terms and
the additional terms. You’ll need to read both.
We ask you to read the terms because they’re what you’re
agreeing to. They’ll also be useful to help you understand
your account. This includes what happens if things go wrong.
Keeping your information up-to-date
You must tell us straight away if your contact details change.
That could be your name, address, telephone number or
email address.
Explaining some of the terms we use
In the agreement, we talk about different types of
’transaction’ you can make using your card account.
We explain what they mean in the table below.
Type of transaction What it means
Purchase Paying for goods or services
Cash Taking out cash
Cash related payment Buying travellers’ cheques,
foreign currency, purchasing
money orders and other
similar payments
Balance transfer Making a payment to another
lender to reduce or repay
what you owe them
Money transfer Transferring cash to your bank
account

3
These transactions make up your ’transaction balance’.
That also includes interest and charges that apply to any
of those transactions, as well as any default charges. But it
doesn’t include any instalment plan.
Key Terms
How much can you borrow?
The total amount you can borrow on your card is called the
’credit limit’. You can only borrow up to your credit limit –
no more.
We’ll tell you your credit limit once we’ve opened your
account. If we change it later, we’ll tell you before we make
the change.
How much do you have to pay each month and when?
How much you have to pay
We’ll give you a statement each month showing the
minimum payment you’ll need to pay for that month.
But we may not give you a statement if you don’t need
to make a payment.
We explain below how we work out the amount of your
minimum payment.
If you entered into your agreement with us before
23 March 2011, it’ll be the higher of:
A. 2.5% of the full amount you owe.
B. £5.
If you entered into your agreement with us from 23 March
2011 onwards, it’ll be the highest amount that we work out
from the three options below:
A. The total amount of:
(a) interest added to the account since your last statement;
plus
(b) any default charges (this is a charge that applies where
you’ve broken the agreement, for example, you pay late.
We explain more below); plus
(c) 1% of the rest of the amount you owe.
B. 2.5% of the full amount you owe.
C. £5.

4
The amount you owe (your transaction balance plus any
instalment plan) will be shown in your monthly statement.
If you owe less than £5 you’ll need to pay the full amount.
So, if you owe £2.50 that’ll be the minimum payment.
Let’s look at an example:
The full amount you owe is £450 (including interest and
charges). That’s made up of:
Amount you borrowed Interest Charges
£423 £15 £12
Based on that, your minimum payment would be
A - £31.23 – because that’s the highest amount of
the three options:
A B C
£31.23 £11.25 £5
That’s made up of: That’s 2.5%
• £15 (interest) of £450
• £12 (charges)
• £4.23 (1% of £423)
Don’t forget, the minimum payment is just that –
the ’minimum’. You can always pay more than that
to reduce the amount of interest you have to pay.
You must try not to pay more than you owe us into the
account. If you do, we may refund any amount that’s a credit
on your account (e.g. if you owe us £200 and you pay £220
into the account, we’ll refund £20). We won’t normally allow
you to spend it.
If you’re on a plan to repay
We know that life doesn’t always go to plan and that
sometimes things can happen which make it harder to repay
what you owe. If you’re having trouble making payments,
please talk to us. We’ll try to help you find a way to repay
things in a more manageable way.
We might also contact you about a plan to repay if you’ve
been in what’s known as ’persistent debt’ for two 18-month
periods in a row. This is to help you repay the amount you
owe over a period of up to four years. We explain more about
persistent debt later.
If you’re on a plan to repay, we’ll let you know what you’ll
need to pay and by when – the minimum payment and the
due date.

5
When you need to pay
You’ll need to make sure the minimum payment gets to us
by the due date shown in your statement. This will normally
be 25 days from your statement date. You can find out more
information about how to make sure payments get to us on
time on the back of the statement.
You can always ask us to collect payments for you by Direct
Debit. With a Direct Debit, you can choose how much you
want to pay each month as long as it’s not less than the
minimum payment. You can find out how much we’ll collect
and when on your monthly statement.
You must also pay straight away:
• the total amount of any missed minimum payments
• anything you owe above the credit limit.
How much do you have to pay each month if you
have an instalment plan?
If you have an instalment plan, you’ll find the monthly
instalment amount and fee on your monthly statement as
well as the minimum monthly payment. You don’t have to
pay the monthly instalment and fee by the due date in your
statement but, if you don’t for two months in a row, we’ll
cancel the instalment plan. We explain more about this later.
By the way, we may reduce your monthly instalment to
make sure you don’t repay the instalment plan faster than
we’ve agreed.
Let’s look at an example of how this would work
where the only borrowing on your account is the
instalment plan:
Here’s what you owe:
Transaction Instalment Number of Monthly
balance plan monthly instalment
instalments amount
£0 £2,000 10 £200
Based on this:
• your minimum payment would be £50 (2.5% of £2,000)
• we’d reduce your monthly instalment to £150
(plus the instalment plan fee)
• you’d still repay £200.

6
How much does it cost to borrow?
Introductory and promotional rates and charges
When you apply for a card you might be eligible for special
rates or charges that apply for a set period – we call these
’introductory rates or charges’.
In the future, we might make other special rates and charges
available to you – we call these ’promotional rates or
charges’. We’ll tell you if we do. We’ll also tell you when any
of these rates are about to end.
It’s important to remember that you’ll lose any
introductory or promotional rate if you’re late making
the minimum payment in any month
Standard rates and charges
For everything else (and after the end of an introductory or
promotional period), our variable standard rates and charges
will apply. When we say ’variable’ we mean amounts that
might change from time to time.
The current standard rates and charges are shown on
the cover letter enclosing your card.
When we charge interest
We charge interest from the date each transaction or charge
is added to your account until the amount you owe us has
been repaid in full.
We work out interest each day and add it to the account
on your monthly statement date. If you pay at least the
minimum payment each month, you’ll pay off all the interest
added to the account that month but, if you don’t, we’ll
charge interest on that interest as well as on transactions
added to your account.
When we won’t charge interest
We won’t charge any interest on default charges or
instalment plan fees.
We also won’t charge interest on any purchases shown in
a statement if you repay the full transaction balance by the
payment due date. If you have an instalment plan, for that to
apply, you’ll also need to pay the monthly instalment and fee
by the payment due date. But you don’t need to pay the rest
of the amount you owe on the instalment plan.
This is complex! Let’s look at an example:
You receive your monthly statement in July.
We won’t charge interest on any purchases shown in your
July statement if you repay the full transaction balance by

7
the payment due date in August. And where you have an
instalment plan, you also pay the monthly instalment and fee
at the same time.
But please remember that trailing interest can
also apply
It’s important to remember that even if you don’t use your
account at all after the July statement date, we’ll charge
’trailing’ interest in your August statement. We’ll do that if
you used your card for anything that isn’t a purchase (such
as a cash withdrawal or balance transfer) before your July
statement date. This could also include interest charged on
any amounts carried over from your June statement.
We also charge interest on trailing interest so even if you
pay the trailing interest in full in September we may charge
further interest on the account.
Non-Sterling transaction charges
These are charges that apply to any transactions made in a
currency that isn’t Sterling e.g. Euros or US Dollars:
Transactions Charges added to Exchange rates
they apply to the account with for the day the
the transaction transaction is
converted into
Sterling
Purchases 2.99% of the The card schemes
transaction amount in use market rates.
Cash or
Sterling (rather than You can find the
cash related
the currency of the current exchange
payments
transaction). rates by visiting
visa.co.uk/support/
The minimum charge
consumer/travel-
is £3 for cash or cash
support/exchange-
related payments.
rate-calculator.
This is on top of html or mastercard.
any other charge co.uk/en-gb/
(for example, a consumers/get-
cash transaction in support/convert-
Euro will have two currency.html.
charges. A charge for
withdrawing cash and
a charge for a non-
Sterling transaction).
You can find more information about using your card
outside the UK, including the costs, by visiting
hsbc.co.uk/international/using-your-card-abroad/.

8
Default charges
Reason for the Charge When it's added to
charge the account
You’re late making the £12 Up to 4 days after the
minimum payment date you should've
made the payment
You’re over the credit £12 When you’re first over
limit (even if we’ve the limit in any month
allowed you to go over)
A payment is returned £5 When your bank tells
unpaid us it can’t make the
payment
We need to enforce Our When we apply for
repayment, including reasonable enforcement
legal and tracing costs costs
Borrowing with an instalment plan
How does it work?
We’ll tell you if you’re eligible for an instalment plan.
If you are, you can choose eligible transactions to repay in
fixed monthly instalments over a time that you choose.
We’ll then move those transactions from the transaction
balance of the account to your instalment plan.
We don’t charge interest on the amount you owe on an
instalment plan but we do charge a monthly fee. Before you
take out an instalment plan, we’ll tell you:
• more information about the plans that are available
to you
• the fees that apply
• your monthly instalments.
We won’t change the terms that apply to any instalment plan
you have on your account.
What happens if you miss a monthly instalment
payment?
If you don’t pay the monthly instalment and fee by the due
date in any month, we’ll move the amount you haven’t paid
back to the transaction balance. We’ll move it back the day
after the due date. Depending on what the transaction was,
from that point, interest will be charged at the rates set out
in this agreement. For example, if it was a purchase on your
card, the standard purchase rate will apply.
How and when can instalment plans be cancelled?
You can cancel an instalment plan at any time by telling us.

9
We’ll cancel the instalment plan if you don’t pay the monthly
instalment and fee by the due date for two months in a row.
So if you don’t make these payments for one month, you’ll
need to pay the amount you’ve missed plus the amount due
the second month to keep the plan. If you don’t pay that
amount by the due date in your statement, we’ll cancel the
plan the next day.
When an instalment plan is cancelled, the full amount you
owe on the plan will move back to the transaction balance
on the account. Depending on what the transaction was,
we’ll charge interest at the rates set out in this agreement.
We’ll only charge a fee for the time you’ve had the plan –
we’ll refund the rest. For example, if you’ve had the plan for
a third of the month and then it’s cancelled, we’ll refund the
fee for the remaining two thirds.
Can you pay more than your monthly instalment?
Yes. You can always pay more than your monthly instalment.
But if you do, any extra amounts will repay the transaction
balance (if any) first before reducing your instalment plan.
If you do pay more, you’ll still need to make your next
monthly instalment on time but the length of your plan may
be shorter and your final payment may be lower.
Can we change the cost of borrowing or any
other terms?
Changes to terms that are personal to you
Sometimes we’ll get information from credit reference
agencies or about the way you manage your account
(for example, where you often pay us or another lender
late). Based on that information, we might change our view
about whether you can actually repay us. If we do, we may
change the rates that apply to you (unless we know that
you’re at risk of financial difficulties) and we may reduce
your credit limit.
Other changes to the credit limit
We may change your credit limit in the future. For example,
we may tell you that a higher credit limit is available to you.
And you can also ask us to think about giving you a higher
credit limit.
You can get in touch to tell us how you want to manage your
credit limit as well. You can tell us:
• you’d like a lower credit limit;
• you don’t want to receive any future credit limit increases;
or

10
• never to increase your credit limit without checking with
you first.
And you can change your mind at any time.
A higher credit limit might offer you greater flexibility and be
an easier way to meet your financial needs. But it can also
mean there’s a greater risk that you’re borrowing too much.
That could cost a lot or take a long time to pay off. You
should carefully think about whether you need a higher limit.
Changes to rates, charges and other terms for
particular reasons
The table below explains when we’ll make changes to the
rates and charges that apply to you and to any other terms.
If we do make a change, we’ll make sure it’s a proportionate
response to a change that’s affecting us or that we
reasonably think will affect us. For example, we won’t make
a change to cover the same cost twice.
Reason Increase or Changes to
reduce rates any other
and charges terms
A change in the interest rates
we have to pay (or a change
we reasonably expect). This
could be a change to the
Bank of England Base Rate,
for example.
• A change in the costs of
providing the account
• A change in general law or
regulation
• A change to our business.
For example, to the
way we manage the
account because of new
technology
Any other change that affects
us if it’s reasonable for us to
pass the effect of that change
on to you
You’re an employee and your We’ll switch
employment ends (but not if you to our
you’re retiring) standard rates
Other changes
This agreement doesn’t have an agreed end date. As it may
last for a long time, we can’t predict precisely why we might

11
need to make changes to this agreement when we enter
into it with you. That means we may also make changes for
reasons that aren’t covered here.
Telling you about changes
We’ll tell you about the change and how it’ll affect you
before we make it. We’ll do this through a message in
your monthly statement, or by writing to or emailing you
separately. Or we may send you a mobile message or secure
online message.
How much notice we give you depends on the change
we’re making:
Reducing your credit limit where we have All other
concerns about whether you can repay us changes
7 days At least
30 days
Your rights when we tell you about changes
You’re protected from any change we make that you don’t
want to accept because we’ll give you advance notice. This
will give you the chance to end our agreement without
charge. In fact, you can end the agreement at any time.
The change will still apply until you’ve repaid everything you
owe us. But, if the change is an increase to an interest rate,
you can repay what you owe us at the unchanged interest
rate. For that to apply, you’ll need to tell us within 60 days
of notice of the increase that you don’t want to accept the
higher rate.
When will the agreement begin and end?
The agreement will begin when we’ve opened the account
linked to your card. This agreement doesn’t have an agreed
end date but either of us can end it as explained below.
You’ll normally be able to use the account as soon as we’ve
sent you a card.
Can you make a claim against us where you have
a claim against a supplier?
If you buy any products or services that cost between £100
and £30,000 using credit under this agreement, you could
have a right to claim against us as well as the seller. That
right could apply, for example, if the product you bought
didn’t arrive or when it did it was faulty or wasn’t as the
seller described.
But, if you have a dispute with someone else over a
transaction, you must keep making payments to us while
you’re trying to sort it out.

12
What could happen if you miss payments?
Missing payments could make it more difficult to get credit
in future. It could also mean that legal action or bankruptcy
proceedings could be taken against you to get back any
money you owe under this agreement.
Additional Terms
1. Who can use the account and how?
1.1 Your card is only for your personal use. It’s not to be used
for a business. Ask us if you need a card for business use.
1.2 You can use the account, as well as any person you’ve
asked us to give an additional card to (we might refer to this
person as an ’additional cardholder’). The card can be used
to make different types of transaction. For example:
(a) To make a purchase.
(b) To get cash or make a cash related payment. We’ll tell
you if there’s a limit on the amount of cash you can withdraw
each day.
(c) If they’re available on your account, to send a balance
transfer or money transfer. We don’t normally allow balance
transfers where the other lender is in the HSBC Group.
1.3 We’ll tell you if you’re eligible for an instalment plan.
If you are, you can choose eligible transactions to repay in
fixed monthly instalments over a time that you choose.
We’ll then move those transactions from the transaction
balance of the account to your instalment plan.
1.4 A payment you ask us to send normally arrives by the
working day after we send it from your credit card account.
If it doesn’t, you can ask us to contact the receiving bank.
We’ll ask them to treat the payment as if it had been made
on time.
1.5 We don’t have an agreement with any additional
cardholder so we can’t give them any information about the
account. That also means you’re responsible for the way
they use the account. This includes any use that makes you
break this agreement. For example, if an additional cardholder
makes a payment that takes the amount on the account over
the credit limit, you’re responsible for that. We’ll cancel an
additional card when you tell us to.
2. How do you authorise payments?
2.1 You, or an additional cardholder, will need to authorise a
transaction before we can charge it to your account. To do

13
that, you’ll need to use the card or the card number. You’ll be
told about any extra steps you need to take to authorise the
payment. These could include signing a paper or electronic
document, using your PIN, biometric data (such as a
fingerprint) or other security details we agree you can use.
But you won’t usually need to do anything else where you’re
making a low value contactless payment.
2.2 If the card, card number and PIN, biometric data or other
security details have been used, we’ll assume you or the
additional cardholder have authorised the transaction. That’s
why you must tell us straight away if you don’t recognise
a transaction charged to your account and shown in your
statement. You or an additional cardholder mustn’t:
(a) use the card or account for anything illegal (or allow anyone
else to); or
(b) go over your credit limit.
When we’re working out if a transaction you want to make
is within your credit limit, we’ll include transactions we’ve
already authorised but haven’t charged to the account. For
example, you have £150 left within your credit limit and we
give a hotel authorisation for a payment of £100. We may not
allow more than £50 to be spent on other things using the
account until the authorisation is cancelled.
2.3 If you, or an additional cardholder, allow someone else
to use a card or the card number, you’ll be responsible for
any transactions they make. But you’ll only be responsible up
until you tell us that the card may be misused. You should tell
us using the contact details below. You won’t be responsible
for any other transactions you or an additional cardholder
haven’t authorised. That includes transactions made with the
card or card number remotely (for example over the Internet,
phone or by mail order). We’ll refund those straight away.
3. When will we give refunds for payments
you’ve authorised?
3.1 If a seller refunds a purchase you’ve made, we’ll only
credit it to the account when we receive details from that
seller. Until then we’ll charge interest on the purchase at the
rate that applies to your account.
3.2 We may be able to refund a payment if you didn’t agree
the actual amount and it was higher than you reasonably
thought it would be. For example, if the card is used to pay
a hotel bill but you didn’t know the amount of the payment
until check out.

14
3.3 You need to ask us for a refund within eight weeks of the
payment being charged to your account. We may ask for
more information we reasonably need when we look into it.
We may need to look into whether you could’ve reasonably
expected what the actual amount would be. To do this, we
take into account how you normally spend and the facts
surrounding your purchase. You aren’t entitled to a refund
if you agreed the payment directly with us. And you aren’t
entitled if we or the seller made information available to you
about the amount at least four weeks before you paid.
3.4 Whether we’re making a refund or not, we’ll let you
know what’s happening and why. We’ll do this within ten
days either of your claim date or the date we get information
we’ve asked for.
3.5 We won’t have to give you a refund if you give us the
wrong details for a payment or cash related transaction.
Or if we can show that the bank we made the payment to
received it. If this happens, we’ll help you to recover the
money but we may charge a fee to cover our costs.
4. Can you stop payments you’ve authorised?
4.1 You can cancel payments you’ve authorised to be made
on a future date, for example, where you’ve set up a regular
payment. You can do this as long as you contact us by
the end of the business day before the payment is due to
be made (normally 5pm). You’ll also need to contact the
person you were making the payment to, to tell them you’ve
cancelled it.
4.2 You can’t cancel any other transaction after it’s been
authorised. You can’t, for example, cancel a cash withdrawal
or payment for a product or service you receive at the time
you make the payment.
5. Can we refuse to authorise a transaction or suspend
your right to use the account?
5.1 There are times when we might refuse to authorise a
transaction, cancel or suspend use of the account or
refuse to replace or reissue a card. This could be where we
reasonably consider it’s necessary for any of the reasons set
out below.
(a) Authorising a transaction would mean breaking this
agreement, or other legal requirements that apply to us.
(b) We believe there’s a significantly increased risk that you
won’t be able to repay any money you owe us.

15
(c) We suspect fraudulent or unauthorised use of the
account.
(d) We believe we have to so we can keep the account or
card secure.
(e) We suspect criminal use of the card or account. Or some
other type of abuse. This could be by you, any additional
cardholder or a third party.
We won’t be responsible if a seller or supplier refuses
to accept your card.
5.2 We’ll refuse to authorise a transaction if we have a
reason to believe it’s for gambling. We might also refuse
to authorise a transaction where we reasonably believe it’d
cause a high risk to you. This could be because the same or
similar types of transactions have been disputed by a lot of
customers or we have legal or regulatory concerns about
them. But we won’t be responsible if you suffer any loss
because we haven’t refused a gambling or other high risk
transaction. This could be, for example, because it was made
offline or we weren’t able to identify it as a gambling or risky
transaction.
5.3 To protect your account, we might ask for some extra
information when you ask us to authorise a transaction.
For example, proof of identity.
5.4 We can also cancel or suspend the use of the account
where:
(a) You’ve been in ’persistent debt’ for two 18-month periods
in a row. That means you’ve paid more interest, fees and
charges than the amount you’ve repaid. Let’s look at an
example.
Total Interest Minimum 1% Interest Default
amount rate payment of the charges
you amount
owe you owe
£2,000 18% £62 £20 £30 £12
£20 is You’re paying £42
what in interest and
you’re charges – that’s
actually more than you’re
repaying repaying
(b) We’ve asked you to increase the amount you’re repaying
and you either haven’t been able to or haven’t got back to us.
Or if it would otherwise be reasonable for us to.

16
5.5 If we refuse to send a payment, we’ll tell you. But for
other types of transactions, you’ll usually find out we’ve
refused to make them because you’ll be asked to pay using
another card, cheque or cash. You can always call us right
away to find out why we’ve refused a transaction. We’ll tell
you unless we can’t for legal reasons.
6. How do we apply payments?
6.1 We apply your payments in a certain order if the amount
you pay in a month is less than the full amount you owe.
We explain the order in the table below.
Order What it applies to
1st To any overdue minimum payments (we call these
’arrears’)
2nd To the minimum payment for that month
3rd To any monthly instalment (or instalments) and
instalment plan fees
4th To the rest of the transaction balance. You can find
that amount in your statement
5th To any transactions, interest or charges that haven’t
yet been included in your statement
6th To any instalment plan balances that are left
6.2 In each case we apply payments first to amounts that we
charge the highest interest rate on before we apply them to
amounts charged at lower rates or zero interest. We always
pay off interest and charges first.
6.3 Sometimes amounts are charged at the same interest
rate. If that’s the case, we’ll apply your payment to the oldest
amounts first. If you have more than one instalment plan
we’ll apply the payment against them in the order they were
added to the account, starting with the plan that has been on
the account longest.
7. Payments into your account by mistake or fraud
7.1 If we pay money into your account by mistake or
because of a systems error, we’ll take it back. If we suspect
any payment into your account was made by fraud, we can
remove it without asking.
7.2 If we’re told that a payment wasn’t meant for you, we’ll
let you know. This may happen if, for example, the person
who made the payment used the wrong account number.
If you tell us it wasn’t a mistake, we won’t return it. But when
we get in touch, we’ll tell you if we’re required by law to
share all the information about the payment with the bank it
came from. This will include your name and address and the

17
payment information. This is so that the person who made
the payment can contact you directly.
7.3 In all other situations, we’ll tell you about it. What we’ll
do then depends on how long ago the payment was made to
you. We’ll either give you time to show us that it was meant
for you before we take it back or we’ll ask you to agree first.
While this is happening, we’ll make sure you can’t use the
money. We might do this by taking the amount out of your
account or by not giving you access to the amount on the
account.
8. What steps do you need to take to keep your
account secure?
8.1 You’ll have to play your part to keep your account secure.
We’ve set out below some of the things you’ll need to do.
(a) Take reasonable steps to stop the account from being
used for fraud. We’ll tell you the steps you can take when we
send a card to you or an additional cardholder. That could be
not keeping your PIN or passwords with the card or making
it easy for someone else to find them.
(b) Tell us straight away if you think the card is lost or stolen.
Or if the card number, PIN or security details might’ve
been used by someone else. Or if you suspect fraud on the
account. Our contact details are set out in this agreement.
If you find a card you’ve reported to us as lost, you’ll need to
destroy it and not use it again.
(c) If we ask you to destroy any cards, do that straight away.
(d) If a transaction on your account hasn’t been authorised,
the police might be involved. We might need to help them
and ask you to do this too.
9. Using a third party provider (TPP)
9.1 You may want to use an app or web service with your
account. They can do things like let you see information
about all your online payment accounts, whoever they’re
with (it could be banks, building societies or credit card
issuers). They can also make payments from those accounts.
We call these companies that provide these apps or sites
’third party providers’ or ’TPPs’.
9.2 If you want to use a TPP, this agreement between us still
applies. When you sign up to use TPP services you need to
give the TPP your permission for them to do these activities
on your account. You should check the information the TPP
gives you carefully to make sure they’re authorised.

18
9.3 If you give your security details to a TPP, we’ll assume
that it’s you who’s allowing us to let them see information
about your accounts and to initiate payments. You’ll be
responsible for any payments made as a result. But if we’re
aware that an unauthorised third party is using your security
details, we’ll block access to your accounts.
9.4 If you notice a problem with a payment while using
a TPP, please contact us right away.
10. How and when can this agreement be ended?
By telling each other
10.1 If you want to end this agreement, all you have to
do is tell us. You can do this at any time.
10.2 If we’re ending the agreement, we’ll write to tell you
two months before we end it.
Breaking the agreement
10.3 We might take action if you seriously break the terms of
this agreement in the ways listed below or in any other way.
(a) You don’t pay minimum payments on time or you go over
your credit limit again and again.
(b) You gave us wrong or misleading important information
when you applied for the card.
(c) You become bankrupt or have similar proceedings taken
against you. Or you enter into a voluntary arrangement with
the people you owe money to.
(d) We reasonably suspect any fraud or other criminal activity
on your part, or on the part of an additional cardholder, even
if it’s not connected to this agreement.
We’ll give you notice before we do anything so you have the
chance to fix the problem. That won’t apply if the problem
can’t be fixed. We explain what action we can take below.
(i) Require that you repay the full amount you owe on the
account straight away.
(ii) Pass on information about you and how you manage your
account to licensed credit reference agencies (which would
make it more difficult for you to borrow in future).
(iii) Limit access to credit on other accounts you have with
us (such as an overdraft or other credit cards).

19
(iv) Bring legal action to get back what you owe us.
That could include getting a court order giving us the right
to payment out of the money from the sale of your home or
other property.
(v) Get you to pay our reasonable costs and expenses for
taking action to get back what you owe us, including legal
costs.
What it means when the agreement ends
10.4 Even where you’ve asked to end the agreement or
we’ve told you we’re ending it, the agreement will continue
until you’ve repaid everything you owe.
10.5 You (and any additional cardholder) must stop using the
account. If we provide any benefits with your card, they’ll also
end.
Applying our rights
10.6 If we have certain rights under this agreement and we
choose not to apply them at some point, that doesn’t stop us
doing that at a later date instead.
11. Can we transfer our rights and obligations under this
agreement?
11.1 We can transfer all of our rights and responsibilities
under this agreement and in relation to your account to
someone else. That includes information about how you’ve
managed your account that that person needs to know.
We’ll tell you if we do this.
12. What law governs this agreement?
12.1 The laws of England and Wales apply to this agreement
and our dealings before you opened your account.
12.2 If your address is in England or Wales, the courts of
England and Wales will deal with any disputes that might
happen. But if your address is in Scotland or Northern
Ireland, then the courts of those countries will deal with
a dispute instead.
13. What happens if you can’t make a payment or access
your account?
13.1 We’re not responsible for any losses you may have
in situations like the ones below.
(a) Where something’s happened that we couldn’t predict
or that isn’t normal. And where it’s outside our reasonable
control and we couldn’t have avoided it even where we
used all of our efforts to. For example, industrial action or
mechanical failure.

20
(b) A seller or cash machine doesn’t accept your card or they
keep it. That also applies to losses because of the way you’re
told about this.
14. Information we need from you and when we can
disclose information about you
14.1 You must give us any information we reasonably ask
for as soon as possible. If you don’t, or we suspect
fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind, we’ll have to take
action. For example, we might:
(a) try to get it from another source; or
(b) block or close your account(s).
Or you might not be able to use some banking services
or keep banking with us.
14.2 We’ll sometimes need to contact you about your
account and your relationship with us. So it’s really
important that your contact details are correct and up to
date. If anything changes, you must tell us as soon as you
can but always within 30 days. If you don’t, we won’t be
responsible if you don’t get information or notices from us.
14.3 We’ll use your information as we explain in our Privacy
Notice. Sometimes we’ll also give it to others. We explain
when we might do this below.
(a) We’re required to by law.
(b) To protect ourselves, such as in any court case.
(c) We have a public duty to. For example, we may have
to give it to a tax authority in another country.
(d) You agree.
15. Tax compliance
15.1 Your tax responsibilities include things like filing tax
returns, paying tax and following any other tax laws or
regulations. Your responsibilities depend on where you live,
where you do business and some other things. It’s up to
you to make sure you follow tax rules. This also applies to
’connected persons’ (e.g. anyone you send a payment to,
who runs your account for you, or is entitled to money in
your account(s) etc.). We can’t provide tax or legal advice so
do speak to an independent advisor.

21
Important information
How to contact us
If you need to update your contact details, ask for
information, tell us that you want to withdraw from the
agreement or make a complaint, you can contact us. Here
are our details:
• write to HSBC UK Bank plc at
HSBC Customer Service Centre BX8 2HB or
• call 03457 404 404
We may record and/or monitor telephone conversations
with you and any additional cardholder so that we can keep
up good service standards. Our agents and other people
working on our behalf might need to do that too.
How we’ll communicate with you
We’ll always communicate with you in English.
We’ll use the most recent postal or email address, phone and
mobile numbers we have for you. We’ll let you know in the
quickest and most secure way if we think there’s something
wrong. This might be a text or a phone call. We’ll do this, for
example, if there’s actual or suspected fraud on your account
or threats to your account security.
We may give you notices or other information about your
credit card, for example, in your monthly statements.
They could be on paper or digital.
If you’ve given us your mobile phone number or email
address, we’ll register you for free alerts so we can send you
messages about certain activity on your credit card account.
We have to register you for some alerts, but you can opt out of
getting other alerts by calling us on 03457 404 404.
If you have a complaint
If you have a complaint, we’ll do everything we can to sort
out the problem. Please contact us using the details in this
agreement. We’ll look into it, try to put it right and take steps
to stop it happening again.
If you still aren’t happy, you may be entitled to refer your
complaint to the Ombudsman Service. Here are the details
to use for the UK.

22
• Address: The Financial Ombudsman Service,
Exchange Tower, London E14 9SR
• Number: 0800 023 4567 or 0300 123 9123
• Email: complaint.info@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
• Website: financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Direct Debit Guarantee
The following Direct Debit Guarantee applies if you opt to
make credit card repayments by Direct Debit.
• This Guarantee is offered by all banks and building
societies that accept instructions to pay Direct Debits.
• If there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency
of your Direct Debit HSBC UK Bank plc, Card Services will
notify you 10 working days in advance of your account
being debited or as otherwise agreed. If you request
HSBC UK Bank plc, Card Services to collect a payment,
confirmation of the amount and date will be given to you
at the time of the request.
• If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by
HSBC UK Bank plc, Card Services or your bank or building
society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of
the amount paid from your bank or building society.
• If you receive a refund you are not entitled to, you must
pay it back when HSBC UK Bank plc, Card Services asks
you to.
• You can cancel a Direct Debit at any time by simply
contacting your bank or building society. Written
confirmation may be required. Please also notify us.
Taxes
Taxes or costs may apply to you that aren’t charged by us
and/or won’t be paid through us. If we have to pay any tax or
duty for providing credit to you, we’ll charge you the amount
of that tax or duty.
Copies
You can ask us for a copy of this agreement at any time.

23
How we’re authorised
HSBC UK Bank plc is authorised by the Prudential Regulation
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
and the Prudential Regulation Authority. Our Financial
Services Register number is 765112. You can check these
details by visiting the Financial Conduct Authority’s website
fca.org.uk or contacting them on 0800 111 6768.
The Financial Conduct Authority is the supervisory authority
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its address is
12 Endeavour Square, London, E20 1JN.
HSBC UK Bank plc is a company incorporated under the
laws of England and Wales with company registration
number 09928412. Its registered office is at 1 Centenary
Square, Birmingham, B1 1HQ. HSBC UK Bank plc’s
registered VAT Number is GB 365684514.
Your information and how we look after it
Make sure you read our Privacy Notice
We take your privacy seriously. Our Privacy Notice explains
how we:
• collect
• use
• disclose
• transfer; and
• store your information.
It also sets out your rights to your information and when we
might need to share it with others. We’ll always tell you if we
make any changes to the Privacy Notice. You can find the
Privacy Notice at hsbc.co.uk/privacy or ask for a copy in
one of our branches or by calling us.
Using your information for payment services
When you open an account with us, you agree to these
terms. So that we can provide payment services to you, you
agree that we can access, process, and keep information you
give to us. It won’t affect any rights and duties either of us
have under data protection laws.
You can withdraw your consent by closing your account.
If you do this, we’ll stop using your information for this
purpose, but may continue to process it for other purposes.

Accessibility
If you need any of this information in a
different format, please let us know.
This includes large print, braille, or audio.
You can speak to us using the live chat on
our website, visiting one of our branches,
or by giving us a call.
There are also lots of other options available to help you
communicate with us. Some of these are provided by third
parties who are responsible for the service. These include a
Text Relay Service and a British Sign Language (BSL) Video
Relay Service. To find out more please get in touch.
You can also visit: hsbc.co.uk/accessibility or:
hsbc.co.uk/contact.
hsbc.co.uk
HSBC UK Bank plc. Registered in England and Wales with number
09928412. Registered Office: 1 Centenary Square, Birmingham B1 1HQ,
United Kingdom. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation
Authority. Our Financial Services Register number is 765112.
Customer Information: Customer Service Centre BX8 2HB
RFB1297 MCP56972 WA ©HSBC Group 2022. All Rights Reser ved.