HSBC Classic Credit Card
Summary Box
The information contained in this table summarises key product features and is not intended to replace
any terms and conditions.
APR
Representative 29.9% APR variable
Interest rates
Introductory Rate Monthly Rate Annual Rate
Purchases N/A 2.207% 29.9%
Cash advances N/A 2.592% 35.9%
Balance transfers N/A 2.207% 29.9%
Interest-free period
Maximum 56 days for purchases if you pay your transaction balance (the amount you owe
excluding any instalment plan) in full and on time. If you have an instalment plan, you’ll also need to
pay the monthly instalment and fee.
Interest charging information
We won't charge interest on any purchases shown in a statement if you pay the full transaction
balance and any monthly instalment plan payments by the payment due date. Otherwise, the
period over which interest is charged will be:
Purchases, cash advances and balance transfers
From: Date charged to your account.
Until: Paid in full.
Allocation of payments
We apply your payments in a certain order if the amount you pay in a month is less than the full
amount you owe. The order is:
(1) To any overdue minimum payments (we call these 'arrears’)
(2) To the minimum payment for that month
(3) To any monthly instalment (or instalments) and instalment plan fees
(4) To the rest of the transaction balance. You can find that amount in your statement
(5) To any transactions, interest or charges that haven't yet been included in your statement
(6) To any instalment plan balances that are left.
In each case we apply payments first to amounts that we charge the highest interest rate on before
we apply them to amounts charged at lower rates or zero interest. We always pay off interest and
charges first.
Sometimes amounts are charged at the same interest rate. If that's the case, we'll apply your
payment to the oldest amounts first. If you have more than one instalment plan we'll apply the
payment against them in the order they were added to the account, starting with the plan that has
been on the account longest.
How we calculate minimum repayments
Here’s how we work out the amount of your minimum repayment. It will be the highest of the
following options:
A. The total amount of:
(i) interest added to the account since your last statement; plus
(ii) any default charges (this is a charge that applies where you've broken the agreement,
for example, you pay late); plus
(iii) 1% of the rest of the amount you owe.
B. 2.5% of the full amount you owe.
C. £5.
Credit limit
Minimum credit limit: £250.
Maximum credit limit: Subject to status.
Fees
No annual fee.
Charges
Cash Fee
2.99% of the cash or cash-related payment (minimum £3).
Balance transfers
This is set out in the offer sent to you.
Instalment plans
Before you take out an instalment plan, we'll tell you the fees that apply.
Foreign Usage
Payment Scheme Exchange Rate
Rates can be found at: visa.co.uk/support/consumer/travel-support/exchange-rate-calculator.html
One or more of the following may apply:
Non-Sterling Transaction Fee
2.99% of the transaction amount in Sterling (rather than the currency of the transaction).
Cash Fee
2.99% of the cash or cash-related payment (minimum £3).
Default fees
If you’re late making the minimum payment: £12.
If you’re over your credit limit (even if we’ve allowed you to go over): £12.
If a payment is returned unpaid: £5.
If we need to enforce repayment, including legal and tracing costs: Our reasonable costs.
Repayments
Illustrative example (includes introductory rates)
For a purchase of £1,000 on your HSBC Classic Credit Card
Monthly Payment Minimum payment £50 payment £100 payment
each month each month each month
Taking into account £220.41 £183.93 £112.94
introductory rates,
how much interest
will you be charged
in the first year?
How much interest £225.27 £102.45 £0.00
will you be charged
in the second year?
How long would 20 years 2 years, 2 months 1 year
it take to clear the
balance?
This example assumes that:
• you make the transaction on 1 January and you make no further transactions
• you always make the payment on the 15th
• your statement is produced 31 days after you make the purchase
• interest is calculated based on the representative 29.9% APR variable and introductory rates
are included
We recommend that you pay more than the minimum payment if you can. If you make only the
minimum payment each month, it will take you longer and cost you more to clear your balance.
Recurring transactions
A recurring transaction (sometimes called a continuous payment authority) is a series of payments
you agree to be collected from your card by a retailer or supplier (for example, insurance cover).
You'll have an agreement between you and the retailer. The Direct Debit Guarantee doesn't cover
these transactions.
WA ©HSBC Group 2022 DCP254