Current Accounts
Current Accounts
Important
information
Efective from January 2023

This leafet has been designed to give you the information you
need when opening a current account with Nationwide. It is
important that you read this information before you open your
account and keep a copy for your reference.
Contents
About us Page2
Accessibility Page2
How we use your information Page2
Charitable Assignment Page3
General current account terms and conditions Page 4-50
1

About us
Nationwide Building Society is a mutual, which means we’re a business that’s
owned by our members and run for their benefit, with no shareholders to satisfy in the way that banks do. By opening
an account with us, you’ll become a member of Nationwide Building Society. Your account is a share of Nationwide
Building Society. It gives you membership rights. You can find out more information about being a member by
looking at our membership rules, which are contained in a document called “Memorandum and Rules”. You can get a
copy by asking in branch or looking on our website. However, please note that your membership may be withdrawn if
you go into an unarranged overdraft, including exceeding an arranged overdraft.
Accessibility
Please see nationwide.co.uk/accessibility if you would like to know more about how we can help with making
Nationwide’s products and services accessible to you.
How we use your information
Use of my information
This is a summary of how Nationwide uses your personal information, if you’d like a more detailed explanation,
please see Nationwide’s full privacy statement “How Nationwide uses your information”, available in branch or
online at nationwide.co.uk/privacy
1. We collect and use your information so we can offer and manage your accounts, confirm your ID, prevent
fraud, provide services to you, collect and recover debt and run our business.
2. We share your information as necessary within Nationwide, with our suppliers and with any third parties
you’ve asked to act on your behalf. Information is shared with our insurance partners when applying for a
Nationwide insurance product or it is a benefit of your account (e.g. FlexPlus).
3. If the law requires or allows us to, we’ll also share information as necessary with other organisations. This
includes credit reference agencies, fraud prevention agencies and other government bodies, regulators and
law enforcement agencies.
4. When we share your information with credit reference agencies they’ll use this to check your credit rating,
along with the other details you’ve given us. These checks are part of most account application processes –
however, they will leave a record on your credit file that other lenders can see. This might affect your ability to
get credit elsewhere for a short while.
5. When we share your information with fraud prevention agencies they will use the data to prevent fraud and
money laundering and verify your identity. If we believe someone poses a fraud or money laundering risk, we
may refuse to provide the product they have asked for and we may also stop providing services they already
have. The fraud prevention agencies will keep a record of any fraud or money laundering risk and this could
mean that other organisations may refuse to provide services, financing or employment.
6. When we transfer information to third parties and organisations, whether inside or outside the UK, we’ll make
sure we only give them information that’s necessary and that your data will stay secure.
7. We only use your information if we have a legal basis to do so, for example, if you have given us consent or if
we need to use the information to meet our obligations to you in our terms and conditions. We may also use
your information if necessary to comply with the law or to carry out our legitimate business interests.
8. You have certain rights when it comes to your personal information including the right to access your data.
Further details on these rights and who to contact are available in branch or online at
nationwide.co.uk/privacy
2

Charitable Assignment
In this charitable assignment section of this leaflet “Society” means Nationwide Building Society and, if it
merges with any other building society, includes such other society and “conversion benefits” means any
benefits under the terms of any future transfer of the Society’s business to a company (i.e. on conversion
or takeover) except the statutory right to have shares in the Society (including any balances on share
accounts) converted into deposits with the company.
THE FOLLOWING WORDING APPLIES TO YOU UNLESS:
(1) YOU WERE A MEMBER OF THE SOCIETY ON 2 NOVEMBER 1997 AND HAVE CONTINUED TO BE
A MEMBER EVER SINCE THAT DATE; OR
(2) YOU FALL WITHIN A SPECIAL CATEGORY OF PERSONS TO WHOM OUR CHARITABLE
ASSIGNMENT SCHEME DOES NOT APPLY.
By applying to open an account after 2nd November 1997, you also apply to be a charity member of The
Nationwide Foundation (“the Foundation”) unless you are already a charity member.
You agree that, if:
• the account is opened by the Society and you are or become a charity member of the Foundation; and
• the Society subsequently enters into an agreement to transfer the whole of its business to a company,
you will assign to the Foundation (or any charity(ies) nominated by it, but to no other person) all
rights to or in connection with any conversion benefits to which you would otherwise become entitled
as a member or depositor at any time before, or within two years, after your membership of the
Society comes to an end.
You make this agreement:
(a) with the Society (acting for itself and for the benefit of the Foundation), in return for the Society
opening the account you are applying for, and you acknowledge that the Foundation may enforce the
benefit of your agreement with the Society under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999; and
(b) with the Foundation directly, in return for the Foundation granting you charity membership (if you are
not already a member).
This agreement means that, without any further notice to you:
• the Society may make over to the Foundation (or to any charity(ies) nominated by it) any such
conversion benefits; and
• the Foundation may exercise all your rights in relation to any such benefits.
You understand that this agreement is irrevocable and cannot be amended or varied without the
consent of both the Society and the Foundation and that neither the Society nor the Foundation
will release you from this agreement. You understand that (except in the case of any class of person
where the Society considers this to be inappropriate) the Society will require on behalf of itself and
the Foundation that all applicants for share and mortgage accounts agree to the above condition (or
a condition having substantially the same effect), unless the Society decides and announces by press
release that it is no longer in the best interests of the Society to do so generally on a continuing basis.
Any such decision by the Society would not have retrospective effect and you would continue to be
bound by the above condition.
3

General Current Account
Terms and Conditions
How this document works
This document contains important information to help you understand the key features of your account
and whether it is right for you. It contains the terms and conditions for your account (which includes the
‘How to use your account’, ‘Current account declaration’ and ‘words we use’ sections of this document)
and any additional terms and conditions that apply if you have a FlexPlus account or a FlexDirect
account. This document together with the Current Account Interest Rates and Charges leaflet, any
arranged overdraft agreement you have with us and any additional terms and conditions applicable to
your account, forms the legal agreement between us (this means that each of us do what we say in
the agreement).
We strongly recommend that you read this document, the Current Account Interest Rates and Charges
leaflet, any arranged overdraft agreement you have with us and any additional terms and conditions
applicable to your account as you will be legally bound by them even if you don’t read them.
You can ask us for additional copies of these documents at any time.
Throughout this document you’ll see words in bold print, you can find out what these words mean in the
‘Words we use’ section at the back of this document.
When we say ‘Nationwide’ or ‘we’ or ‘us’ or ‘our’ in this document we mean Nationwide Building Society
and when we say ‘you’ or ‘you’re’ or ‘your’ we mean you our member.
If you change your mind
If you change your mind after you have opened the account and decide that you don’t want it, you can
close your account and have your money returned as well as any interest you have earned provided you
tell us that you want to close your account within 28 days of opening it by contacting us via Internet
Banking or in any branch. You must repay all the amounts you are responsible for under this agreement
within 30 days of notifying us of cancellation. If you don’t close your account during the cooling-off
period, you can still close your account at any time (see the ‘Closing the account’ section for
more details).
If you have a joint account:
• As a joint account holder these terms apply to you individually and jointly with the other account
holder(s).
• Please remember that while many people find joint accounts useful and convenient, there are some
things you need to be aware of:
a) all funds in the account belong jointly to the account holders so each of you is entitled to
withdraw all of the money in the account, obtain any information about the account or give us
any other instruction in respect of the account, even if your relationship breaks down (including
divorce and separation) – this means that any one of you may withdraw all the money in the
account unless one or both of you ask us to stop this from happening;
b) if a joint account holder dies, the other account holder is entitled to all of the money in the
account and the account will stay open in their name;
4

c) unless the Law in the UK says differently, we will not be concerned about how you divide the
money in the account;
d) the order your names appear on the account is important because although you will both be
members of Nationwide, only the first named account holder may be eligible to vote at our
Annual General Meeting;
e) you will have joint and several liability for the account – this means you are both responsible for
the account so that if the account is not managed properly, we can ask both or either of you to
repay anything you owe us. For arranged overdrafts and unarranged overdrafts, we can ask both
or either of you to repay regardless of who made the transactions.
Your account
Credit Scoring
1. We may from time to time make searches within Nationwide, at credit reference agencies and fraud
prevention agencies where we think it is reasonable to do so in order to make decisions regarding
credit (including whether to make available or continue or extend existing credit).
2. When we carry out a search about you at a credit reference agency, the agency will record details of
the search. This information will be available to other organisations you apply to for credit. You should
be aware that the presence of several credit searches on your record with a credit reference agency
may affect your ability to obtain credit elsewhere for a short period of time.
3. We also receive monthly data about you from credit reference agencies to help us manage your
account with us, however this does not leave a record on your file with the agencies.
4. We may register information about you and the conduct of your account with one or more licensed
credit reference agencies. This information is used to make lending decisions, to prevent fraud and to
trace debtors.
Introductory rates and offers
5. You are only entitled to one introductory rate or offer (where applicable and unless specific offer terms
say differently) for each Nationwide current account product at any one time.
6. If you have previously held a Nationwide current account you are not entitled to the introductory rate
or offer (where applicable and unless specific offer terms say differently) for that current account
product under this agreement.
Interest on money in your account and charges
7. Our Current Account Interest Rates and Charges leaflet sets out the accounts upon which we pay
interest and our charges. Our current interest rates and charges are available from any of our
branches, on our website and in our Current Account Interest Rates and Charges leaflet.
8. You may have to pay other taxes or costs which are not paid through us or charged by us.
Statements and information about your account
9. We will provide or make available details of all amounts paid into or out of your account. We
will normally provide you with a monthly statement where there have been transactions out of
your account. However, you can ask us to make a statement available to you instead in which
case we won’t automatically provide you with a monthly statement unless you ask for one (you
can also request a mini statement from any Nationwide cash machine in the UK). Unless the
additional conditions for your account say otherwise, you can normally choose whether to receive
communications (including statements):
5

a) electronically (also known as paperless); or
b) by post.
You’ll need to give us your email address and be registered for Internet Banking if you want
paperless communications.
10. If you choose paperless communications:
a) once a statement or any other document has been sent to you via Internet Banking, we won’t
make any changes to them; and
b) we will still send you certain communications via the post.
If you change your mind about how you want to get your communications, you can tell us
at any time.
11. For joint accounts, if any of you choose paperless communications the account will become paperless
which means all account holders will be converted to paperless communications. This means we will
no longer provide paper statements on the account to either of you. Any statement will be provided
through the Internet Bank, and an email will normally be sent to your nominated email address.
12. For joint accounts, when we send a communication (including statements) in the post we will only
send one copy addressed to both of you to the first named account holder’s address (unless you
ask us otherwise). If you are registered for Internet Banking, the statement will also be provided
through the Internet Bank.
13. We may provide services as part of your account through our Banking app, which can give
you insights into your spending, based on your account activity and could help with managing
your money.
Business Use
14. The account is for personal use and it cannot be used for business purposes.
Your obligations
Taking money out of your account
15. To ensure that you can always pay for things you want, it’s important that you make sure you have
enough money available to use (including any arranged overdraft limit) before you ask us to make a
payment.
16. If you want to take money out of your account, you’ll need to tell us that’s what you want to do. This
is called giving your consent; how you give us your consent depends on how you want to take money
out of your account, and we’ll tell you how to do this later in this document.
17. We will also need to identify you in line with our requirements at the time.
18. We have limits that apply to payments you can make from your account, and to the amount of money
you can take out of your account at cash machines or in branch.
19. You can make payments, card purchases or withdrawals from your account where you have enough
money available to use (including any arranged overdraft limit). There’s more information about this
later in this document.
6

20. To meet legal and regulatory requirements, we (and any financial institutions we may use to help
us make the payment) may carry out checks before payments are made or incoming payments are
applied to your account with a view to preventing financial crime. Occasionally this may lead to a
delay in a payment being sent or applied to your account. In some circumstances we may not be able
to make the payment or apply an incoming payment to your account. We will always tell you if this is
the case unless it would be unlawful to do so. We will not be responsible for any loss that results from
this.
21. We can make the following deductions from your account:
a) payments you ask us to make (for more details on how to make payments see the ‘I’ve got a
question about payments out of my account’ section below);
b) purchases and withdrawals using your card;
c) cheques paid into your account which are later returned unpaid;
d) any charges and/or overdraft interest that you have to pay;
e) where a payment into your account is recalled – there are more details about this later in this
document;
f) where we are required by Law to do so.
Taking care of your account
22. It is important that you take all reasonable precautions to take care of your cheque book, statements,
cards, PINs, security codes, security devices and other account information and security details
to help prevent fraud and protect your account. You should follow any instructions we give you in
connection with your security details and in particular:
a) always take reasonable steps to keep your card safe and sign it as soon as you receive it;
b) keep your PIN, password, security codes (passcodes generated by your card reader and One Time
Passcodes (OTPs) sent to you), and other security information secret at all times. You should not
tell anyone, even us or the Police, what your security details are;
c) if you have difficulty remembering your PIN, you can change it to something more memorable at
any Nationwide cash machine;
d) if you register your card details in an e-wallet or on a device such as a mobile phone you must
take reasonable precautions to keep them, and any security codes and other security information
which relates to them e.g. your phone passcode or fingerprint stored in your phone, safe and to
prevent fraudulent use of them. You should not store anyone else’s fingerprint or other biometric
means of identification in your device if that fingerprint/ other biometric identification can be
used to authorise a payment or access your card details. We will treat a payment authorised by
any fingerprint/other biometric identification held in your device as being authorised by you.
23. You must let us know as soon as you can by telling us in branch (during opening hours) or by calling
us 24 hours a day on 08000 55 66 22 (or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from outside the
UK) or report it to us using the ‘Manage Card’ tool in the Banking app, if:
a) your card or cheque book is lost or you think it might have been stolen;
b) you think someone else knows your PIN;
c) you think a payment has been made incorrectly or you don’t recognise a payment from your account;
d) you think someone else might be using or have access to your card, cheque book, PIN, security
details, e-wallet or security device without your permission.
7

24. If cards reported lost or stolen are later found or returned you should ring us and follow our
instructions.
25. You must follow any other reasonable instructions we give you to help you take care of the money in
your account.
26. From time to time, we may ask you to provide us with information to help us meet our anti-money
laundering, financial crime, sanctions and other legal and regulatory requirements. You must
promptly provide any information requested. If you fail to provide this information when asked to, this
may result in us delaying or refusing to process your payments or blocking all access to your account.
We will not be responsible for any losses which may result.
Overdrafts
27. We may agree to give you an arranged overdraft if you meet the eligibility criteria. If you ask us for
an arranged overdraft or to increase an arranged overdraft, we may carry out searches with licensed
credit reference agencies before deciding to give you one.
28. The arranged overdraft interest rate that applies is set out in your arranged overdraft agreement, Fee
Information Document and in our Current Account Interest Rates and Charges leaflet, which can be
found on our website (nationwide.co.uk) and in any of our branches.
29. Interest you pay on your arranged overdraft is calculated on a daily basis on the overdrawn balance
outstanding on your account and will be taken from your account on a monthly basis. Any arranged
overdraft interest we charge to your account will increase the overdrawn balance you owe us, and
we’ll charge interest on the new balance, from the day it is added to your account.
30. If you are joint account holders and request an arranged overdraft or a change to an arranged
overdraft to be put in place immediately or over the telephone, you agree that we can give all the
information we are required to disclose to just one of you.
31. You may have a negative balance or go over your arranged overdraft limit where, for example, you
make a payment when you don’t have enough money in your account (including any arranged
overdraft limit) and the payment is not stopped by us, if a payment into your account is later recalled
by the bank making it, a cheque paid into your account is later returned unpaid, or we apply charges
to your account. If this happens, you must repay the amount you owe us or are over your arranged
overdraft limit as soon as possible and we may refuse further payments until you have enough money
or can borrow using your arranged overdraft to cover the payments.
32. If you go over your arranged overdraft limit, you will only be charged interest on the amount of your
arranged overdraft limit.
33. We will tell you personally about any arranged overdraft interest you have to pay at least 14 days
before we take it from your account.
34. All overdrafts are repayable on demand, but we’ll try to give you advance notice before reducing or
withdrawing your arranged overdraft limit, or demanding repayment. This means we can ask you to
repay all or part of your arranged overdraft at any time.
35. We can vary the interest rates applying to arranged overdrafts, and introduce new interest rates or
changes to overdrafts. We tell you more about this in the ‘Changes to this agreement, interest
rates, and charges’ section.
8

Our rights
Stopping money being paid into or being taken out of your account
36. The card we give you to use with your account belongs to us and you must return it to us if we ask
you to. If you haven’t used your account for a significant period of time, when your card expires we
may not replace it.
37. We can suspend or cancel your right to use cards (including card details in e-wallets or on devices such
as mobile phones), PIN(s), Telephone Banking, Internet Banking or our Banking app if we think it is
reasonably necessary because:
a) we are concerned about their security, or
b) we believe that it is necessary for your and/or our protection, for example where we suspect the
card is being used or may be used for fraudulent purposes or in an unauthorised way, or
c) there is a significantly increased risk you may be unable to repay any overdraft on your account,
or
d) there are legal or regulatory obligations we have to meet; or
e) (for cards in e-wallets only) where any e-wallet service you may have registered your card in is no
longer available to you.
We’ll try to tell you in advance (including reasons) unless this would compromise our reasonable
security measures or it is unlawful to do this. If we’re unable to tell you or make information available
to you in advance, we’ll tell you immediately afterwards. We’ll lift any suspension or send you a
replacement card once the reason for the suspension or cancellation has ended. Please also take a
look at the section ‘How else might you take steps to keep my account safe’ which tells you more
about when we might stop payments being paid into or taken out of your account, or block access to
your account
When we can refuse to act on your instructions
38. We may refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal (and we won’t be responsible for any
loss to you) if:
a) you haven’t met all of the conditions for making a payment in these terms and conditions;
b) the instruction is not clear or does not contain all the information we need;
c) we reasonably consider that the account details (such as account number, sort code and any
reference) which you have provided to us are incorrect or do not sufficiently identify the account
into which the payment is to be made;
d) our security controls require you to produce additional identification or prevent us carrying out the
transaction (for example the payment would exceed any limits we have set) or the payment is to a
person we reasonably consider may be acting unlawfully, for example the payee is included on the
FCA’s Unregistered Cryptoasset Business List.
e) we reasonably suspect illegal or fraudulent activity;
f) We reasonably suspect the payment you want us to make is a scam payment;
g) we reasonably consider that your account has been or is likely to be misused;
h) we reasonably consider there is a security or fraud risk on the device you have used to request the
payment through Internet Banking or our Banking app;
i) we are ordered to do so by a court;
j) we might breach a Law if we allow the transaction; or
k) you do not have enough money available to use (including any arranged overdraft limit).
9

39. Information about the refusal and, if possible, our reasons for the refusal and information on how to
correct any factual errors that led to the refusal can be obtained by calling us from the end of the next
working day on
03457 30 20 11 (or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from outside the UK). If you are using a
card to make a payment or withdrawal from a cash machine, the retailer (or the organisation which
owns the cash machine) will normally tell you that the payment has been refused.
40. We will have to comply with any court orders (or other instructions we are legally obliged to follow) we
receive affecting your account such as a child maintenance order, a debt relief order or a bankruptcy
order. This may mean we have to freeze your account and/or make deductions from it.
Set Off
41. If you owe us money (for example on a loan, credit card, mortgage, or overdraft) and do not pay it on
time, we can use any money you have in any of your accounts with us to repay or reduce the amount
you owe us. This is called a right of ‘set-off’.
42. This right will apply to all sums you owe to us and to any other company in our group (including The
Mortgage Works (UK) plc and UCB Home Loans Ltd) unless the Law or other restrictions prevents it
(for example, we will not exercise our right of set-off to use any money that we think you need to meet
essential living expenses or certain important debts to which we must give priority or use any money
you have told us isn’t yours).
43. Where the account is in your sole name only, our right of set off allows us to take money in your
account to pay a debt only you owe or to pay a debt that you and someone else owes us together.
44. Where the account is a joint account, our right of set off allows us to take money in your account
to pay:
a) a debt owed to us by one or more of the account holders;
b) a debt owed to us by one or more of the account holders and someone else together.
45. We’ll tell you at least 14 days before we exercise our right of set-off.
10

If something goes wrong
If you believe that a payment out of your account has been made without your permission, or have any
concerns about a payment you have made (such as the payment has not reached the intended recipient
or may be a scam), please contact us immediately on 08000 55 66 22 to discuss the ways we may be
able to help you.
If money is taken out of your account without your permission
46. If you believe a payment has been made from your account without your permission, including
payments which have been initiated by a Third Party Provider, you can ask us for a refund provided
you contact us as set out above (under the heading ‘if something goes wrong’).
47. If you contact us within 13 months of the date of the payment, (and provided your account wasn’t
overdrawn when the payment was made) we will normally refund your account by the end of the
next working day with the payment amount and any interest or charges you’ve paid as a result of
that payment. To tell us about an unauthorised payment, you should report it to a branch (during
opening hours) or call us on 08000 55 66 22 (24 hours) or on
+44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from outside the UK.
48. If we later become aware that we’re not responsible for the refunded payment, we’ll deduct the
amount of the refund from your account.
49. We won’t make a refund if we can show that you did authorise the payment or we reasonably suspect
fraud or we can show that with gross negligence you failed to keep your card, security device or
security information safe (‘gross negligence’ means that something you have or have not done was
very obviously wrong or careless). However, in these situations, we will investigate the payment as
quickly as we can.
Payments where you don’t know the amount in advance
50. Sometimes e.g. if you are hiring a car, you may not know what the exact amount of a card payment
will be when you authorise it. The retailer may ask for your agreement to reserve funds on your
account to cover the final payment. If this happens you won’t be able to spend the funds which are
reserved. The retailer should only ask us to reserve funds if you have agreed to a specific amount of
funds which can be reserved.
51. You can ask us for a refund if you authorise someone in the UK or the EEA (euro transactions only)
to take money from your account (for example where you use a card) without agreeing the exact
amount and:
a) the amount actually debited from your account is more than you could have reasonably expected
taking into account your previous spending pattern, these terms and conditions and all other
circumstances; and
b) you contact us within 8 weeks from the date the funds were taken from your account.
52. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to investigate your claim for a refund
and if we have to take action against another party as a result of a transaction on your account, you
must assist us and provide all available information to enable us to pursue this action.
53. We’ll make any refund or provide you with our reasons for refusing your request within 10 working
days of receiving all the information we require from you.
54. There are some situations where we won’t refund you:
a) you expressly agreed to us making the payment for that amount;
b) information on the amount that would be taken was provided or made available to you at least
4 weeks before it was taken out of your account; or
11

c) the amount of money you are disputing has arisen because of changes in the exchange rate. For
example, a change in the exchange rate might mean that a different amount of money is taken
out of your account than you thought because you bought something online in euros and when
the amount was converted into pounds sterling, the value of euros had gone up, making it more
expensive in pounds sterling than it was before.
Who is responsible for payments made without your permission?
55. Generally you will not be responsible if payments are made from your account without your
authorisation, but there are some exceptions to this explained below.
56. You will be responsible for the full amount of a payment if:
a) you act fraudulently;
b) you let someone else use your security information or anyone else use your card;
c) (unless your account is overdrawn) you have been grossly negligent with (or intentionally shared)
your card, or device, or the security details you use to access Telephone Banking, Internet
Banking or Banking app;
d) you intentionally or with gross negligence don’t tell us as soon as possible of the loss or theft of
your card, security information or security device, or if you suspect someone has tried to use any
of them (unless your account is overdrawn).
57. However, you will not be responsible (unless you have acted fraudulently) for transactions not
authorised by you if:
a) someone else uses your card without your permission before you receive it;
b) your card has been used by someone else to purchase goods by telephone, internet or mail order;
c) you have already told us that your card, device or security information is missing or may be
misused by someone;
d) you tried to tell us your card or security information had been lost or stolen but the telephone
numbers in the ‘Taking care of your account’ section were out of operation; or
e) we did not carry out authentication checks that the Law required us to apply before allowing the
payment.
58. Where you are not responsible, we will refund the amount of the transaction and any charges or
interest you paid or lost as a result of the transaction. We will not have any further liability to you.
We normally refund this amount by the end of the next working day but we won’t do this if we
reasonably believe you have acted fraudulently and we have disclosed this to the relevant authorities.
Liability for incorrect payments
59. If you ask us to make a payment to another person and the payment is not made properly or the
person you are paying does not receive it, you should contact us as set out above (under the heading
‘if something goes wrong’)
and we will investigate what went wrong. We will refund the amount of the transaction and any
charges or interest you paid, and pay you any interest we would have paid on that amount, unless:
a) we can show that the payment was received by the recipient’s bank; or
b) you provided us with incorrect payment details.
12

In this case, we are not responsible but if you ask us, we will make reasonable efforts to recover the
payment and will tell you the outcome (we may charge our reasonable costs for doing so). If, when
you provided us with the payee details, it was mistakenly confirmed that the name on the recipient’s
account matched the payee’s name which you provided, then you may be entitled to recover any loss
which this error may have caused. In those circumstances, please contact us.
If a payment is made late due to our error, you can ask us to make sure the payee’s bank adds the
payment to the payee’s account as if it had been made on time.
When we’re not responsible
60. We won’t be responsible if we don’t comply with any of these terms and conditions due to:
a) abnormal or unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control e.g. an industrial dispute, the
consequences of which would have been unavoidable despite all our efforts; or
b) us having to comply with Law.
61. We won’t be responsible if you are unable to use a card that you have registered or stored in an
e-wallet or on your device unless this is as a result of something we have done. This is because we
don’t have any control over the e-wallet or your device.
62. We won’t be responsible if you ask us to make a payment to another person and the recipient’s bank
delays crediting the money to the recipient’s account. This could happen if, for example, they need to
carry out security checks.
Changes to this agreement, interest rates and charges
63. Our agreement with you could last a long time, so we’ll need to make changes to it from time to time.
For example, we may need to:
(i) introduce new charges or change existing charges, including charges for holding an account
with us;
(ii) change interest rates we pay you, or that you pay us for an overdraft; or
(iii) change the terms of your agreement.
When making any changes we’ll always act proportionately and responsibly in the broader interests of
our members.
64. We can predict some of the reasons why we might need to make changes to this agreement.
These are:
(a) because of changes in costs for running our business or for providing new or existing services to
you, including changes in costs of funding;
These costs could include administrative costs, employment costs, building costs and technology
costs, or changes in costs of a service or benefit provided by us or by anyone else.
For example, if our operational costs increase we may allocate a proportion of these costs to our
personal current account customers.
(b) due to changes in benchmark interest rates or other relevant market rates;
For example, the Bank of England base rate could increase or decrease, which would have an
impact on the interest rates we pay you and you pay us for an overdraft. This could lead to us
increasing or decreasing our interest rates.
13

(c) because of developments in technology or in the way the banking industry generally delivers
services;
For example, to reflect advances in digital banking.
(d) to respond to changes, or reasonably anticipated changes, in the Law or codes of practice which
apply to us or because of a decision by a court or ombudsman;
For example, the Financial Ombudsman could make a ruling in relation to a particular customer
which has a knock-on impact on our other customers, which may mean we need to change our
terms and conditions.
(e) to meet regulatory requirements;
For example, to reflect any changes in requirements or guidance from a Regulator or to make
sure we can continue to meet existing requirements or guidance. This includes requirements
affecting the reserves we have to hold.
(f) (if you have an overdraft with us), because information we have about you or that we get from
credit reference agencies about the way you manage your account with us or other lenders,
influences our view of your ability to repay any amounts you’ve borrowed, we may change
the overdraft interest rates that you pay us and we may reduce your arranged overdraft limit.
Where you hold this or another account together with another person, the information may
include information on that other person as well
For example, if you’ve failed to make all your payments to other lenders on time for a number
of months, we may increase your overdraft interest rate.
65. However, because you might hold an account with us for a long time, we can’t anticipate everything
that might happen over this period. This means we may also need to make other changes. If we do,
when we tell you about the change, we’ll explain how it will affect you.
66. We can also adjust interest rates, our account charges, overdraft rates, or the way we structure what
you pay for your everyday banking services with us, for any other valid reason which isn’t outlined
above.
67. If we want to make a change that’s beneficial to you, we don’t need a reason to make that change.
When will we tell you about a change?
68. If we make a change for one of the reasons listed above we’ll tell you about it no less than 2 months in
advance, unless one of the following shorter notice period applies:
a) if we increase the interest rate we charge on an arranged overdraft we will tell you about it no less
than 7 days in advance;
b) if we increase arranged overdraft charges or introduce a new arranged overdraft or unarranged
overdraft charge we will tell you about it no less than 30 days in advance;
c) if we are reducing arranged overdraft rates or charges, we can do so immediately;
d) we can make changes to our published exchange rates at any time and do not need to tell you
about them in advance. Details of our current exchange rates that apply to outbound SWIFT and
SEPA payments in a foreign currency can be found at nationwide.co.uk
e) If we make a beneficial change to the interest rate we pay you, we will tell you as soon as possible
after we’ve introduced the change. We don’t have to give you personal notice about this.
14

How we will tell you about a change
69. We will normally tell you about any changes to your account by writing to your address or by telling
you personally in an electronic format that is equivalent to writing, such as by e-mail. If we are able
to make a change without giving you personal notice, we will tell you in one of the ways set out in the
‘Communication’ section of this agreement.
What you can do if we make a change
70. If you’re not happy with a change we tell you about in advance and you decide you don’t want to
keep the account, you can take all your money out and close or switch the account without charge. If
you choose to close the account you will have to pay back any money you have borrowed before the
account is closed.
71. If we do not hear from you within 2 months of us telling you about the change, we’ll take that to
mean you’ve accepted the change on the date it came into effect.
Moving you to a different account
72. Sometimes we may decide to close certain types of accounts, or we may move your account to a
different product. We may do this for any of the reasons stated above that would allow us to make a
change to your current terms. We might also move your account to a different product or open a new
account for you if:
a) you’re not eligible for an account;
b) the account is not suitable for you;
73. If we do this, we will always give you at least 2 months’ advance notice of the change unless the
change can be made with a shorter notice period set out in the ‘When we will tell you about a
change’ section of this agreement. If you would prefer us to make the change sooner, we may do so,
but only if we believe that doing so is in your interest and that we will continue to meet our legal or
regulatory obligations. If you do not want to move to the substitute account, you will have the right to
close your account during the notice period.
Closing the account
74. You or we can close your account by ending this current account agreement (which is separate to any
arranged overdraft agreement). If we end this agreement we will give you not less than 2 months’
written notice. You can end this agreement at any time by contacting us via the Internet Bank or in
any branch and you must repay all the amounts you are responsible for under this agreement.
75. If you ask us to close your account, we will treat this as a withdrawal of your consent to any payment
transaction (including a series of payment transactions), unless it is too late to withdraw your consent.
76. You must destroy any unused cheques and your card.
77. If you close your account, any money you owe us (including the payment of interest) will continue
to apply until you have repaid all of that money to us.
78. We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. These
might include:
a) we are legally required to close the account;
b) you have carried out (or we reasonably suspect you have carried out) illegal or fraudulent activity
on the account;
c) you have committed a serious breach of these terms and conditions or have repeatedly breached
the terms and conditions;
15

d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff or the staff of any third party providing
services in connection with the account;
e) we’ve demanded that you repay an overdrawn balance on your account and you fail to do so;
f) you haven’t provided us with information we have requested about your identity or liability for tax;
g) if we reasonably consider that by continuing with this agreement we may break a Law; or
h) we reasonably consider that we may be exposed to action from any government, Regulator or
law enforcement agency.
Transferring rights
79. You can’t transfer any of your rights and obligations in relation to your account, or your account itself,
to another person.
80. We can transfer all of our rights in relation to your account to someone else. We can transfer all of
our obligations in relation to your account, but only to someone we reasonably consider capable
of performing them equally as well as us and who is authorised or recognised by our Regulator as
being able to accept deposits. This won’t reduce any of your rights in relation to your account.
Unclaimed Assets Scheme
81. We take part in the unclaimed assets scheme under the Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts
Act. If there has been no activity on your account for 15 years (or other period specified by Law in
the UK), we may transfer any money in your account to the unclaimed assets scheme. You’ll still have
the right to your money and you can contact us at any time for information about how to get your
money back.
Holding your account
82. You can nominate a third party to operate your account using the Nationwide Third Party Mandate,
a valid Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order or Curator Bonis (Scotland) but your account
facilities will be limited in these circumstances.
83. No one else apart from you and us will have any rights under this agreement.
Applicable Law
84. This agreement, the operation of the account, and any discussions we’ve had with you about entering
into this agreement, are governed by English law and the language we’ll use in this agreement and
our communications will be English. If you want to bring a claim against us in the courts, the courts of
England and Wales will be able to deal with any questions relating to this agreement but if you live in
another country, you can bring a claim in the courts which are local to you.
If you’re not happy
85. We hope that we always live up to your expectations. If we don’t, we want to know so that we can
put things right and improve the service we provide to our members. If you aren’t satisfied with our
service, you can contact us in a way that suits you:
a) visit our website and click on the option ‘Contact us’ at nationwide.co.uk;
b) phone 03457 30 20 11 (or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from outside the UK);
c) write to us at The Complaints Team, Nationwide Building Society, NW 2020, Swindon, SN38 1NW
including your name, address account details and details of your complaint;
d) talk to us in branch; or
16

e) (if you’ve registered) through the Internet Bank.
We will provide a full response to your complaint by post or by email or any other format we agree
with you. We will try and do this within 3 working days if at all possible.
86. If you are not satisfied with the way we’ve dealt with your complaint you can refer it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service within 6 months of receiving our final response. You can also refer your
complaint to them first without giving us the opportunity to resolve it, but if you do this, they will
only consider your complaint with our consent. The Financial Ombudsman Service provides a free,
independent, complaint resolution service. Details about their service and how to refer a complaint to
them can be found on their website at financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
FlexDirect conditions
These additional conditions supplement and amend the current account agreement. In the event of any
inconsistency between these additional conditions and the current account agreement, these additional
conditions will apply.
1. Account holding and ownership
1.1 The account is only available to members who register, or are registered, for Internet Banking.
1.2 The account must be operated using Internet Banking, Banking app, Telephone Banking or
ATMs unless you wish to carry out a transaction or request a service that is not available through
one of these channels, in which case you may carry out the transaction or request the service at
any Nationwide branch.
2. Statements
2.1 FlexDirect is an online product and all accounts are set to paperless communications. Therefore
statements will be provided via Internet Banking.
3. Security
3.1 You must tell us as soon as possible, by contacting your branch (during opening hours) or call us
on
08000 55 66 22 (24 hours) in the UK or +44 1793 65 67 89 from outside the UK or report it to
us using the ‘Manage Card’ tool in the Banking App, if:
a) your card or cheque book is lost or stolen;
b) someone else knows your PIN;
c) you think someone else may be using your card, cheque book or PIN without your
permission;
d) to notify us of a disputed transaction.
FlexPlus conditions
These additional conditions supplement and amend the current account agreement. In the event of any
inconsistency between these additional conditions and the current account agreement, these conditions
will apply.
1. Account holding and ownership
1.1 You can use the insurance benefits of the account provided you are resident in the UK and you
continue to meet any additional eligibility requirements. Non-UK residents are not able to use the
insurance benefits of the account.
17

2. Monthly account charge
2.1 A monthly account charge is payable for us maintaining the account. If you choose not to use
a benefit or service provided with the account, or are not eligible for a benefit or service, or a
benefit or service is not available to you, you will not be entitled to a refund or reduction of the
account charge.
2.2 The account charge is payable monthly on the last day of each month. You will not be charged
in the month that you open or switch to the account. If you close the account or switch to a new
Nationwide current account, you will not be charged in the month that happens.
2.3 The account charge can be found in the rates and charges information on our website or on
request from your branch. We may change the charge for a reason set out in the ‘Changes to
this agreement, interest rates and charges’ section and we will tell you about the change as
set out in that section.
3. Benefits and Services
3.1 You will be entitled to the benefits and services offered with the FlexPlus account. Details of these
will be provided to you when you open the account and may be updated from time to time in
accordance with these conditions.
3.2 If your account is closed or switched to another account, the benefits and services will no longer
be available to you.
3.3 If you cancel any of the benefits or services the account must either be closed or switched to
another current account that you are eligible to open.
3.4 The benefits and services applicable to your account may be provided to you by external product
providers and insurers. In such cases your agreement for those services will be with the relevant
provider or insurer and we will not be liable for any matter arising out of the performance or
non-performance of the benefit or service, or for any involvement or representation made by the
provider or insurer.
3.5 Where there are additional terms and conditions applicable to the benefits and services you
will be provided with them. The benefit or service will be offered subject to those terms and
conditions.
3.6 No third party authorised to operate the account on behalf of the account holder(s) is entitled to
any of the benefits and services.
3.7
i) We may add additional benefits or services, or additional features to existing ones, at any time.
ii) We may change or withdraw benefits or services, or features forming part of these, for a reason
set out in the ‘Changes to this agreement, interest rates and charges’ section. If we withdraw
a benefit or service, we will tell you personally no less than 60 days in advance. If we change a
benefit or service we will tell you personally about the change no less than 30 days in advance.
If you are not happy with the change or withdrawal you may close your account without notice
or charge up to 60 days after we tell you about it. If a change is not to your disadvantage we
may make it immediately and tell you about it afterwards in one of the ways set out in the
‘Communication’ section of the current account agreement.
18

iii) We may withdraw a benefit or service immediately in the following circumstances:
a) if required to do so to comply with any Law or guidance;
b) if it is provided by a third party and they cease to provide the benefit or service to members;
c) we or any third party providing a benefit or service reasonably suspect fraudulent activity;
d) if you breach any terms of this agreement, for example you exceed an arranged overdraft, you
fail to pay the monthly account charge or you fail to repay any sums you owe to us where they
have been demanded.
iv) Where a benefit or service is provided by a third party, it may be varied or withdrawn by the third
party in accordance with their terms and conditions for the relevant benefit or service.
4. Security
4.1 You must tell us as soon as possible, by contacting your branch (during opening hours) or call
us on 0800 11 88 55 (24 hours) in the UK or +44 1793 5412 00 from outside the UK or by
reporting it to us using the ‘Manage Card’ tool in the Banking App, if:
a) your card or cheque book is lost or stolen;
b) someone else knows your PIN;
c) you think someone else may be using your card, cheque book or PIN without your
permission;
d) to notify us of a disputed transaction.
How to use your account
Use of your personal information for providing payment services to you
You explicitly consent to us accessing, processing and retaining any information you provide to us for the
purposes of providing payment services to you. You may withdraw this consent by closing your account. If
you do this, we will stop using your information for this purpose, but may continue to process information
about you for other purposes where we are required or allowed to by Law.
I’ve got a question about payments into my account
This section covers:
• how money can be paid into your account (including receiving money from inside the UK and
receiving money from outside the UK) e.g. from your family, friends and organisations such as your
employer;
• what information they need to make the payment;
• when the money paid into your account will be available to you;
• whether you can keep money paid into your account by mistake.
Our Current Account Interest Rates and Charges Leaflet has details about whether we pay you interest on
the money paid into your account, once it is available to you.
19

How payments can be made into your account in pounds sterling within the UK
Payment What information is needed to make When will it be available?
Type the payment to your account
Cash (this Your full name, sort code and account Branch – it will show in your account
can be paid number. and be available for you to withdraw
in over the immediately.
counter in Self-Service Machine
branch or at • Our ‘Fast Cash’ self-service machines
one of our automatically count your cash and
self-service the cash will show in your account
machines) and be available for you to withdraw
immediately.
• If our self-service machine does not
automatically count your cash, we will
receive it when we empty the machine
(this depends on the machine but won’t
be later than the next working day) and
the cash will be applied to your account
and be available for you to withdraw as
soon as we have counted it.
Electronic Your full name, sort code, account Once we receive it, it will show in your
payments number and any other information account and will be available for you to
(Standing required by Law or by the payer’s bank withdraw immediately. Regular BACS
orders, or building society. payments e.g. salary and Department of
regular Work and Pensions payments will only be
payments, bill available for you to withdraw once we have
payments, received the money from the sender’s bank.
CHAPS, The time of day we receive these payments
BACS) can be different each week/month.
However, we would normally expect to
receive BACS payments due on a particular
working day by 7am.
20

How payments can be made into your account in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment What information is needed to make When will it be available?
Type the payment to your account
Cheques Your name on your account – they will All cheques go through a process called
write that on the cheque which they will ‘clearing’. Cheques posted in to us, paid
give to you for you to pay in: in at our branches and our Nationwide
a) in Branch; cash machines will clear through an image
clearing system.
b) at some of our Nationwide cash
machines; or The clearing system affects when you can
withdraw the money, and when it will be
c) by posting the cheque to us at PO Box
‘cleared for certainty’ which means it’s
8888, Swindon, SN38 1NW (together
definitely staying in your account unless
with the paying in form that is available
you are, or we have reasonable grounds to
via nationwide.co.uk).
suspect you are, a knowing party to fraud.
You must pay a cheque into your account
If we find out that the person or
within 6 months of the date on it, as we
organisation who gave you the cheque
may not be able to collect funds after then.
doesn’t have enough money to pay the
After that, you may need to ask the person
amount of the cheque then we’ll have
or organisation that gave you the cheque
to take the amount of the cheque out of
to give you a new one.
your account. If you have already taken
The date on the cheque you’re paying in the money out of your account and this
must not be a date in the future. happens, you will be overdrawn, so it is
advisable to wait until the money is ‘cleared
for certainty’.
More details about the image clearing
system are set out in our Current Account
Interest Rates and Charges leaflet.
We do not accept:
1) Cash in a currency other than pounds sterling;
2) Cheques in pounds sterling drawn on a non UK bank; or
3) Cheques in a Foreign currency.
Cheques are the only form of payment that can be sent to us in the post – we do not accept other forms
of payment sent to us in the post.
21

How you can receive money from outside the UK in pounds sterling or in a
Foreign currency by an Electronic Payment
What information is needed to make When will it be available?
the payment to your account
• Nationwide’s Bank Identifier Code (BIC) If the payment is in a Foreign currency, we will convert the
– shown on your statement payment into pounds sterling using our standard inbound
• SWIFT Intermediary Bank – shown on exchange rate. Our standard inbound exchange rate may
your statement vary, depending on the payment type.
• your International Bank Account Once the funds have been converted to pounds sterling, or
Number (IBAN) – shown on your if the payment is in pounds sterling, the funds will be added
statement to your account and will be available to you to withdraw
immediately.
• your full name
If the details set out in the first column of this row are used,
However if the payment type used is a
we can usually put your money into your account on the
SEPA Credit Transfer, you only need to
day we receive it.
provide the person sending the money
with your International Bank Account
Number (IBAN) and your full name.
If you’d like more information on payments in a Foreign currency into your account, please ask in
branch or call us on 03457 30 20 11 (or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from outside the UK) or
see our ‘Overseas payments’ leaflet available at nationwide.co.uk
Do I keep any money that’s paid into my account by mistake?
If another bank tells us that money has been paid into your account by mistake, or we have paid money
into your account by mistake, we can take an amount up to the amount of the mistaken payment from
your account. We generally do not have to tell you first but if we do try to check with you, we can stop
you from withdrawing those funds while we try to contact you. We will deduct the funds when we are
reasonably satisfied that there was a mistake.
If we do not return money which the payer’s bank believes has been paid into your account by mistake,
we are required to provide information to the payer’s bank about you, your account and the payment in
order that the payer can seek to recover the money.
I’ve got a question about payments out of my account
This section covers:
• how payments and withdrawals can be made from your account (both from inside the UK and from
outside the UK)
• what information you need to give to make the payment or withdrawal;
• when the payment arrives with the person or organisation you are paying; and
• how to cancel payments.
22

We will assume we are dealing with you and will make Electronic payments from your account (without
making further checks) if we have checked your identity and you have given us your consent in one of the
following ways:
Payments out of your account within the UK made in pounds sterling
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Cash withdrawal in In a branch (in By signing a paper We may set limits on how
pounds in the UK person) form which includes you can use a card or other
the payment details or, device, for example, limiting
by inserting your debit the amount of cash you can
card and PIN into a card withdraw in a day. We will tell
terminal on the branch you what these limits are when
counter and confirming we give you the card or device.
the payment details are
correct (in branches that
offer this service).
By using the cash By inserting your debit Occasionally when you use a
machine (either a card and PIN and cash machine the machine
Nationwide cash confirming the payment provider may make cash
machine or LINK details are correct. withdrawal charges over which
cash machines) we have no control. Make sure
you read all the on-screen
instructions carefully when
using non Nationwide cash
machines. If you are using
a card to make a payment
or withdrawal from a cash
machine, the retailer or
organisation which owns the
cash machine will tell you if the
payment has been refused.
If you use our self-service
machines to pay money to a
charity this will be included
in your daily cash withdrawal
limit.
If you use your card to take
money out of a cash machine
and put your PIN in incorrectly
a number of times or there is
a technical failure, the cash
machine might keep your
card. Unfortunately, we can’t
be held responsible for any loss
if this happens.
23

Payments out of your account within the UK made in pounds sterling (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Cash withdrawal in Over the counter at By using your card.
pounds in the UK the Post Office ®
(continued) in the UK. You may
be able to make
cash withdrawals at
Banking Hubs.
(not available
on FlexStudent
or FlexGraduate
accounts)
Card payment At retailers that By entering your PIN
using your card or display the Visa sign into the card keypad or
device providing a signature.
Contactless If your card displays By tapping your card You should make sure that
payments the contactless or device on the you’ve enough money in your
It’s just another symbol retailer’s card terminal account before using your
way of making it can be used at – occasionally you may Contactless card as some
payments using retailers who accept also be asked to enter shops and other organisations
your card or contactless payments. your PIN or provide a won’t automatically ask us to
device. If you have You can ask us to signature. check the amount of money in
a card with this place a control on your account before you make
symbol on it, your card which stops a payment and this could lead
you can make it from being used to your account going into an
payments in to make the majority unarranged overdraft.
seconds. of contactless
Contactless makes transactions. Some
it quicker to types of contactless
make low value transactions can still
purchases up to a be made, for example
limit we set. transactions on board
an aircraft.
24

Payments out of your account within the UK made in pounds sterling (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Card payment Online or over the By providing details from We need to check the payment
using your card phone – with retailers your card request has come from
or device online or who accept cards you. We do this by using a
over the phone displaying the VISA combination of your personal
symbol and card details, the 3 digit
security number on the
back of your card, the card
reader, your mobile device,
your log in / security details,
biometric information (such as
fingerprint recognition), and
any security codes.
Only shop at websites which
have secure payment pages,
and always use a computer
or device that you know is
protected.
Recurring card Online or over By providing details from Normally these are regular,
payments the phone – with your card ongoing payments e.g. for a
providers who accept magazine subscription.
recurring card We need to check the payment
payments request has come from
you. We do this by using a
combination of your personal
and card details, the 3 digit
security number on the
back of your card, the card
reader, your mobile device,
your log in / security details,
biometric information (such as
fingerprint recognition), and
any security codes.
25

Payments out of your account within the UK made in pounds sterling (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
You can make Telephone Banking Providing us with the You’ll need to register to use
Electronic (certain payments details of the payment services like Internet Banking
payments to other only – please you want us to make and or the Banking app and
people’s accounts see “Important confirming those details you’ll have to provide us with
in the UK information about are correct. information about where the
You can set up your payments”), payment is going to. You must
regular payments Internet Banking, give us the correct details. If
in pounds Banking app or you don’t, we can refuse to
sterling to pay using a device (like a make the payment, or if the
another person card). In exceptional payment is made it may be
or organisation circumstances you delayed or not even received
by setting up a can ring us – for by the right person and we
standing order or example, if you are may not be able to get it
a direct debit being supported back for you.
You can transfer by the Specialist If you know you’ve made
money to other Support Team. a mistake please contact
Nationwide Once a member has us immediately on
accounts you died, their Personal 03457 30 20 11 (or
have with us (if Representative can +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are
any). For example, ring us to give us a calling from outside the UK).
you can transfer payment instruction. We need to check the
money you have payment request has come
in your account to from you. We do this by
a savings account asking using a combination of
with us, if you have your log in / security details,
one. biometric information (such
as fingerprint recognition),
the card reader, your mobile
device and any security codes,
and confirming the details
of the payment you wish to
make.
26

Payments out of your account within the UK made in pounds sterling (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Payment by cheque By cheque Use of your signature. • You must only write cheques
(if your account in pounds sterling. We
comes with a will take the money from
cheque book) your account on the same
working day that we receive
a cheque you have written.
We can refuse to pay a
cheque if it is more than 6
months old.
• You must take reasonable
precautions to stop anyone
altering or forging your
cheques.
• You must not write a future
date on a cheque. If you do,
we can still pay the cheque
when we receive it.
• If you wish to cancel a
cheque you must contact us
immediately.
27

Payments out of your account made or sent outside of the UK made in pounds sterling or a
Foreign currency
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Getting cash using At cash machines By inserting your debit We may set limits on how
your card that display the Visa card and PIN and you can use a card or other
sign abroad confirming the payment device, for example, limiting
details are correct. the amount of cash you can
withdraw in a day. We will
tell you what these limits are
when we give you the card or
device.
Occasionally when you use a
cash machine the machine
provider may make cash
withdrawal charges over
which we have no control.
Make sure you read all the on-
screen instructions carefully
when using non Nationwide
cash machines. If you are
using a card to make a
payment or withdrawal from
a cash machine, the retailer
or organisation which owns
the cash machine will tell
you if the payment has been
refused.
Card payment At retailers that By entering your PIN
using your card or display the Visa sign into the card keypad or
device abroad abroad providing a signature.
28

Payments out of your account made or sent outside of the UK made in pounds sterling or
a Foreign currency (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Contactless If your card displays By tapping your card You should make sure that
payments the contactless or device on the you’ve enough money in your
It’s just another symbol retailer’s card terminal account before using your
way of making it can be used at – occasionally you may Contactless card as some shops
payments using retailers who accept also be asked to enter and other organisations won’t
your card or contactless payments. your PIN or provide a automatically ask us to check
device. If you have You can ask us to signature. the amount of money in your
a card with this place a control on account before you make a
symbol on it, your card which stops payment and this could lead
you can make it from being used to your account going into an
payments in to make the majority unarranged overdraft.
seconds. of contactless
Contactless makes transactions. Some
it quicker to types of contactless
make low value transactions can still
purchases up to a be made, for example
limit we set. transactions on board
an aircraft.
Card payment Online or over the By providing details from Only shop at websites which
using your card phone – with retailers your card. have secure payment pages,
or device online or who accept cards and always use a computer
over the phone displaying the Visa or device that you know is
symbol protected.
We need to check the payment
request has come from
you. We do this by using a
combination of your personal
and card details, the 3 digit
security number on the
back of your card, the card
reader, your mobile device,
your log in / security details,
biometric information (such as
fingerprint recognition), and
any security codes.
29

When using your card or device to get cash or to make a card purchase, if you want the card scheme e.g.
Visa to convert the payment or cash withdrawal to pounds sterling you must select to pay in the Foreign
currency. Visa will carry out the conversion using their standard exchange rate and we’ll deduct the
amount in pounds sterling from your account. If you select to pay in pounds sterling, the conversion will
be done by the retailer or self-service machine owner. For more details about the exchange rate that will
apply and our fees see our Current Account Interest Rates and Charges leaflet.
For cash withdrawals/card purchases you make using your card in the EEA or within the UK in euro or
the currency of a EU Member State, the Law requires providers to show total currency conversion charges
as a percentage mark- up over the latest euro foreign exchange rates issued by the European Central
Bank (ECB). This is so you can compare the currency conversion costs of different providers. For cash
withdrawals/card purchases made in euro or another EU Member State currency you can view details of
the percentage mark up which applies that day at nationwide.co.uk/ currency-conversion.
VISA will convert most cash withdrawals/card purchases into pounds sterling using their exchange rate
which applies on the day you authorise the cash withdrawal/card purchase. However, in some limited
circumstances e.g.for amounts above 100,000 US dollars, VISA will use their exchange rate which
applies on the day they receive details from the retailer/cash machine owner. This may be after the day on
which you made the cash withdrawal/card purchase so the VISA exchange rate and the percentage mark
up may be different to those on the day you made the cash withdrawal/card purchase.
If you use your card or device to buy things or to make a cash withdrawal in a Foreign currency
outside the UK, there is usually a delay between the time when you make your purchase/cash
withdrawal and when the money is taken out of your account. We will take the money from your
account on the working day we receive details of the transaction from Visa. During this time, your
account balance will include the amount of money you’ve spent but usually it won’t be available to you.
If you’d like more information on making debit card payments in a Foreign currency out of your account
please ask in branch, contact us on 03457 30 20 11 (or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you are calling from
outside the UK) or see our ‘Overseas payments’ leaflet at nationwide.co.uk.
30

Payments out of your account made or sent outside of the UK made in pounds sterling or
a Foreign currency (continued)
Type of payment How you give your How you agree to us Additional Information
instruction making the payment
Electronic Internet Banking, Providing us with the You’ll need to register to use
payment – you can Banking app or details of the payment services like Internet Banking
make Electronic using a device (like a you want us to make and or the Banking app and
payments to send card). In exceptional confirming those details you’ll have to provide us with
money outside the circumstances you are correct. information about where the
UK. can ring us – for payment is going to. You must
example, if you are give us the correct details.
being supported If you don’t, the payment
by the Specialist may be delayed or not even
Support Team. received by the right person
Once a member has and we may not be able to
died, their Personal get it back for you. If you
Representative can know you’ve made a mistake
ring us to give us a please contact us immediately
payment instruction. on 03457 30 20 11 (or +44
1793 65 67 89 if you are
calling from outside the UK).
We need to check the payment
request has come from you. We
do this by using a combination
of your log in / security details,
biometric information (such
as fingerprint recognition),
the card reader, your mobile
device and any security codes,
and confirming the details of
the payment you wish to make.
For Electronic payment transactions in a currency other than pounds sterling, we will convert
the payment amount using our standard outbound exchange rate for that currency. Our standard
outbound exchange rate may vary depending on payment type. These are variable rates that change
frequently.
When you ask us to make a payment, we will provide you with details of the actual exchange rate.
If you use Internet Banking to request a payment to an account in an EEA country or the UK in euros
or another EU currency, we will also provide details of our estimated charges for carrying out the
currency conversion expressed as a percentage mark-up over the latest euro foreign exchange rates
issued by the European Central Bank (ECB).
You can find details of our current exchange rates that apply to outbound SWIFT and SEPA payments in
a foreign currency at nationwide.co.uk/exchange-rates.
If you ask us to make a payment that is in a different currency to the account of the person you are
paying, we cannot control the exchange rate applied by their bank.
We do not accept and will not act on postal instructions to make a payment from your account.
31

What details do I need to give you if I want to make Electronic payments?
What information you need to give us depends on whether you are sending money within the UK or
sending money outside the UK. The table below explains the information that you’ll need to provide.
Information Pounds Sterling Payment in Payment overseas or
the UK in a Foreign currency
Sort Code Yes No
Account Number Yes No
Reference/ roll number/ invoice number Yes Yes
Whether the account you are paying is a Yes No
personal or business account
The first name and last name of the Yes Yes
person you are paying or the name of the
business (and reference, if applicable)*
Name of the recipient bank or building No (unless your payment is being Yes
society sent as a CHAPS payment)
Address of the recipient bank or building No (unless your payment is being Yes
society sent as a CHAPS payment)
Bank Identifier Code (BIC) or national No Yes (unless your
bank code payment is being sent
in euros as a SEPA
Credit Transfer)
Recipient’s bank account number or No Yes
International Bank Account Number
(IBAN) (depending on the destination
country)
*We may need to truncate the name you provide on the payment message we send to the recipient’s
bank as there is only a limited amount of space on the payment message.
If we need anything else we will ask you at the time. We may not send all the information we request from
you with the payment. The recipient’s bank may not use all the information we send with the payment
when crediting the money to an account e.g. they may credit a payment based solely on the sort code
and account number without using the intended recipient’s name.
When can I tell Nationwide I want to make payments, when will the money arrive, and how can
I stop the payment?
The ‘Important information about your payments’ table tells you when you can give us instructions to
make different types of payments, when the bank of the person you are sending the money to will get the
money and whether you can stop us sending the money if you change your mind.
If you (or the third party you have nominated to act on your behalf) are being supported by the Specialist
Support Team, please look at the information on page 41-44. For information about your account being
managed by your Attorney, someone appointed by a Court or your Personal Representative, please look at
the information on page 39-40.
Limits may apply to Electronic payments from your account – we make limits available to you when you
ask us to make a payment and they can also be found on our website. We may also set internal limits for
security purposes but won’t make these available to you.
Payments in pounds sterling usually leave your account immediately – the position is slightly different for
card and Electronic payments in a Foreign currency, which we’ve explained in the ‘Payments out of
your account made or sent outside of the UK made in pounds sterling or a Foreign currency’ table.
32

Important information about your payments
Payments in pounds sterling within the UK
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
ELECTRONIC PAYMENTS
Internal transfer to At the time you ask us Immediately. For You cannot normally
another Nationwide to make the payment payments by telephone, cancel a payment after
account using the Internet Bank, by the next working day. we have accepted your
Banking app, ATM and instruction.
Telephone Banking* or,
on an exceptional basis,
by telephone.
During opening hours at
a branch.
Future dated internal At the time you ask us Immediately. You can cancel the
transfer to another to make the payment payment up to 10:00pm
Nationwide account using the Internet on the working day
Bank, Banking app or before it is due to leave
Telephone Banking*. your account.
We must receive your
payment instruction by
10:00pm on the working
day before you want the
payment to be sent. If
we don’t, your payment
will be sent on the next
working day.
Immediate Bill At the time you ask us Within 2 hours. You cannot normally
Payment – Bill to make the payment For payments by cancel a payment after
Payments are made using the Internet telephone, if we receive we have accepted your
through the Faster Bank, Banking app, an your payment instruction instruction.
Payments Service ATM, during opening before 4pm Monday-
hours at a branch or, on Friday, it will arrive at
an exceptional basis, by the recipient’s bank the
telephone or in writing. same day. If we receive
your payment instruction
after 4pm Monday-
Thursday, it will arrive at
the recipient’s bank the
next working day. If we
receive the payment
instruction after 4pm
on a Friday or over the
weekend, it will arrive at
the recipient’s bank the
next working day.
33

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Future dated Bill At the time you ask us to Within 1 working day. You can cancel the
Payment make the payment using payment up to 10:00pm
the Internet Bank or on the working day
Banking app. before it is due to leave
We need to receive your your account.
payment instruction by
10:00pm on the working
day before you want the
payment to be sent. If
we don’t, your payment
will be sent on the next
working day.
Standing order – At the time you ask us Within 1 working day. You can cancel the
a regular payment to make the payment payment up to 10:00pm
for a set amount using the Internet Bank on the working day
or during opening hours before it is due to leave
at a branch. We need to your account.
receive your instruction
by 10:00pm on the
working day before you
want the payment to be
sent.
If we don’t, your payment
will be sent on the next
working day.
Direct debits – To set up a direct debit On the date you You can cancel the
a regular payment, you must complete an have agreed with the payment up to 6:00pm
the person you pay a instruction form with the organisation you are on the working day or
direct debit to can UK organisation you are paying. Saturday before it is due
change the amount paying. to leave your account.
but should give you We must receive the We recommend you also
advance notice. payment request from the contact the company or
person you are paying by person you are paying.
10:30pm 2 working days
before the direct debit
payment date. Payments
are made on working
days only. Payments
due to be made on a
weekend or bank holiday
will be sent on the next
working day.
34

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
CHAPS – Pounds At the time you ask us On the same working You cannot normally
sterling payments to make the payment day. cancel a payment after
within the UK using the Internet Bank, we have accepted your
during opening hours instruction.
at a branch, or, on an
exceptional basis, by
telephone.
For same day payments
we must receive your
instructions by 3:00pm
on a working day.
Payments are made
on working days only.
Payments due to be
made on a weekend or
bank holiday will be sent
on the next working day.
* Telephone Banking can only be used to make an internal transfer to another Nationwide
current or savings account in your name (including a joint account).
CARDS
Purchases You can use your card Payment will be deducted You cannot cancel a
to pay for goods and from your account on the card payment once you
services at any time. working day we receive have authorised it, but a
the request from the retailer or supplier may
retailer’s bank. be able to make a refund.
For card payments made
outside the UK, payment
will be deducted from
your account when we
receive details of the
payment from Visa.
35

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Recurring card If you wish to cancel a
payments (for recurring card payment,
example, where you must contact us
you give someone by phone, in branch,
permission to or by contacting us
regularly take cash via the Internet Bank
from your account before 4:00pm on the
using your card working day before the
details) next payment is due to
leave your account. We
recommend that you
also inform the person
you are paying that
you have cancelled the
payment.
Alternatively, you can
cancel the recurring
payment directly
with the person or
organisation you are
paying. If you cancel a
recurring card payment,
all future payments will
also be cancelled.
Please note that if
we change your card
number and/ or expiry
date and you have used
your card number to
set up regular payments
on your account to a
person or organisation
your payment mandate
will be updated and
future payments you
make to them may be
paid using your new
card number and/ or
expiry date.
36

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Cash withdrawals The money will be You can’t cancel a cash
deducted from your withdrawal after you’ve
account on the same pressed the button on
day for cash withdrawals the keypad agreeing
in pounds in the UK. to it.
For cash withdrawals
in foreign currency
outside the UK payment
will be deducted from
your account when we
receive details of the
withdrawal from Visa.
In this table, references to cut-off times are to local times in the UK.
Payments overseas or in a Foreign currency
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
ELECTRONIC PAYMENTS
SWIFT – an At the time you ask us Within 1 working day if You cannot normally
international payment to make the payment your payment is made cancel a payment after
or a Foreign currency using the Internet in an EEA currency and we have accepted your
payment to another Bank, during opening to a country in the EEA instruction.
account within the UK. hours at a branch, or, or the UK.
on an exceptional basis, If you make a payment
by telephone. to a country within the
Payments are made EEA or the UK that is
on working days only. not in an EEA currency
Payments due to be your payment will
made on a weekend normally arrive within
or bank holiday will 4 working days.
be sent on the next Payments outside the
working day. EEA will take longer –
please ask us for details.
37

Payments overseas or in a Foreign currency (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
SEPA Credit Transfer – a At the time you ask us Within 1 working day. You can ask us to
payment in euro to an to make the payment cancel a payment and
account in the Single using Internet ask the recipient’s
Euro Payments Area. Banking, during bank to return the
You can find out which opening hours at a money if you’ve made
countries are in the branch, or, on an duplicate payments
Single Euro Payments exceptional basis, by by mistake, there has
Area on our website. telephone. been a technical fault
Payments are made or someone else has
on working days only. fraudulently made the
Payments due to be payment from your
made on a weekend account. You must ask
or bank holiday will us to cancel the payment
be sent on the next within 10 working days
working day. of the payment date
unless the reason is a
fraudulent payment (in
which case Condition 47
applies and you have 13
months after the date
of payment to ask us
to cancel). But there is
no guarantee that the
recipient’s bank will
return the payment. or
that the recipient agrees.
In this table, references to cut-off times are to local times in the UK.
If you make an overseas payment it may pass through one or more banks on its way to the recipient’s
account. Banks who are based outside the UK may deduct their fees from your payment before it
reaches the recipient. This could mean that the money the recipient receives is less than the payment
you sent to them.
If you make payments from your account to an account for another person or organisation and they
move their account to another provider, your payment mandate may be updated and future payments
you make to them may be paid to the person or organisation’s new account.
38

Payments from accounts being managed by a Personal Representative
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Internal Transfers Once we have received Your payment will arrive No, you cannot normally
(to a Nationwide your completed ‘Request within 1 working day of cancel a payment after
account) to Close Account(s)’ us sending it. Payments we have accepted your
form, we may call are made on working instruction.
you to confirm the days only.
payment details with
you, and your payment
instruction may be taken
on the phone during
that conversation.
Payment types made by exception
CHAPS – payments Once we have received Your payment will arrive No, you cannot normally
within the UK in pounds your completed within 1 working day of cancel a payment after
sterling ‘Request to Close us sending it. Payments we have accepted your
Account(s)’ form, we are made on working instruction.
may call you to confirm days only.
the payment details
with you (including
any transaction fee),
and your payment
instruction is given to
us on the phone during
that conversation.
SWIFT – Once we have received For a payment in No, you cannot normally
an international your completed an EEA currency or cancel a payment after
payment; or a foreign Request to Close pounds sterling to a we have accepted your
currency payment to account(s) form, country in the EEA: instruction.
another account within we may call you to your payment will
the UK confirm the payment arrive at the receiving
details (including bank within 1 working
any transaction fee) day.
and the exchange For a payment to a
rate that will apply to country within the EEA
your payment. Your or the UK that is not
payment instruction in an EEA currency:
is given to us on the your payment will
phone during that normally arrive within
conversation. 4 working days.
Payments made
outside the EEA will
take longer – please ask
us for details. Payments
are made on working
days only.
39

Payments from accounts being managed by a Personal Representative (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
SEPA Credit Transfer – a Once we have received Your payment will arrive You can ask us to cancel
payment in euros to an your completed Request within 1 working day of a SEPA payment and
account in the Single to Close account(s) us sending it. Payments ask the recipient’s
Euro Payments Area. form, we may call you are made on working bank to return the
to confirm the payment days only. money if you’ve made
details (including any duplicate payments
transaction fee) and by mistake, there has
the exchange rate been a technical fault
that will apply to your or someone else has
payment. Your payment fraudulently made the
instruction is given to payment from your
us on the phone during account. You must ask
that conversation. us to cancel the payment
within 10 working days
of the payment date
unless the reason is a
fraudulent payment (in
which case Condition 47
applies and you have 13
months after the date
of payment to ask us
to cancel). But there is
no guarantee that the
recipient’s bank will
return the payment or
that the recipient agrees.
40

Payments from accounts when you are being supported by the Specialist Support Team
These tables tell you when you (or your nominated third party, if you have an active Third Party
Mandate authorisation in place) can give us instructions to make different types of payments, when the
bank of the person you are sending the money to will get the money and how you can stop us sending
the money if you change your mind. We refer to you or your nominated third party as ‘you’ and ‘your’ in
the tables.
Payments in pounds sterling within the UK
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Internal transfer to At the time you Requests received You cannot normally
another Nationwide ring the Specialist by telephone; your cancel a payment after
account. Support Team to payment will arrive we have accepted your
ask us to make the within 1 working day instruction.
payment, or on the of us sending it.
working day we Requests received by
receive the payment writing; your payment
instructions in writing will arrive within 2
in the post. working days of us
sending it.
Immediate Bill At the time you ring Requests received You cannot normally
Payments – Bill the Specialist Support by telephone; your cancel a payment after
Payments are made Team to ask us to make payment will arrive we have accepted your
through the Faster the payment, or on within 1 working day instruction.
Payment Service. the working day we of us sending it.
receive the payment Requests received in
instructions in writing writing; your payment
in the post. will arrive within 2
For payments working days of us
instructed by sending it.
telephone, if we
receive the payment
instruction after 4pm
on a Friday or over
the weekend, we are
deemed to receive it on
the next working day.
41

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Regular Transfers – At the time you ring Requests received You can cancel the
a regular payment for the Specialist Support by telephone; your payment by ringing the
a set amount. Team to ask us to make payment will arrive Specialist Support
the payment, or on within 1 working day Team before 5pm on
the working day we of us sending it. the working day before
receive the payment Requests received in it is due to leave your
instructions in writing writing; your payment account.
in the post. will arrive within 2
For payments working days of us
instructed by sending it.
telephone, we need to
receive your payment
instruction by 5pm
on the working day
before you want the
payment to be sent. If
we don’t your payment
will be sent on the next
working day.
Standing Order – At the time you ring Requests received You can cancel the
a regular payment for the Specialist Support by telephone; your payment by ringing the
a set amount. Team to ask us to make payment will arrive Specialist Support
the payment, or on the within 1 working day of Team before 5pm on
working day we receive us sending it. the working day before
payment instructions in Requests received in it is due to leave your
writing in the post writing; your payment account.
For payments instructed will arrive within 2
by telephone, we need working days of us
to receive your payment sending it.
instruction by 5pm
on the working day
before you want the
payment to be sent. If
we don’t your payment
will be sent on the next
working day.
42

Payments in pounds sterling within the UK (continued)
Payment Type When we receive your When payments Can you cancel your
payment instructions normally arrive at the instruction?
recipient’s bank
Direct Debits – To set up a direct debit On the date you You can cancel the
a regular payment. you must complete an have agreed with the payment by ringing the
The person you pay instruction form with organisation you are Specialist Support Team
a direct debit to can the UK organisation you paying. on the working day
change the amount but are paying. before it is due to leave
should give you advance We must receive the your account – please
notice. payment request from ring before 5pm (Monday
the person you are to Friday) or before 1pm
paying by 10:30pm on a Saturday.
2 working days We recommend you also
before the direct debit contact the company or
payment date. person you are paying.
Payments are made
on working days only.
Payments due to be
made on a weekend
or bank holiday will
be sent on the next
working day.
CHAPS – Pounds At the time you ring Requests received You cannot normally
Sterling payments the Specialist Support by telephone; your cancel a payment after
within the UK Team to ask us to make payment will arrive we have accepted your
the payment, or on within 1 working day instruction.
the working day we of us sending it.
receive the payment Requests received in
instructions in writing writing; your payment
in the post. will arrive within 2
Payments are made working days of us
on working days only. sending it.
Payments due to be
made on a weekend
or bank holidays will
be sent on the next
working day.
43

Payments overseas or in a Foreign Currency
Payment Type When we receive When payments Can you cancel your
your payment normally arrive at the instruction?
instructions recipient’s bank
SWIFT – At the time you For a payment in You cannot normally cancel a
an international ring the Specialist an EEA currency or payment after we have accepted
payment or a Support Team pounds sterling to a your instruction.
Foreign currency to ask us to make country in the EEA:
payment to another the payment, or Requests received
account within the on the working by telephone; your
UK. day we receive payment will arrive
your payment within 1 working day
instructions in of us sending it.
writing in the post. Requests received in
Payments are made writing; your payment
on working days will arrive within 2
only. Payments due working days of us
to be made on a sending it.
weekend or bank For a payment to a
holidays will be country within the EEA
sent on the next or the UK that is not
working day. in an EEA currency:
your payment will
normally arrive within
4 working days.
Payments made
outside the EEA will
take longer – please ask
us for details.
SEPA Credit At the time you Requests received You can ask us to cancel a
Transfer – a ring the Specialist by telephone; your SEPA payment and ask the
payment in euro to Support Team payment will arrive recipient’s bank to return the
an account in the to ask us to make within 1 working day money if you’ve made duplicate
payments by mistake, there
Single the payment, or of us sending it.
has been a technical fault or
Euro Payments on the working Requests received in someone else has fraudulently
Area. You can day we receive writing; your payment made the payment from your
find out which your payment will arrive within 2 account.
countries are in instructions in working days of us You must ask us to cancel
the Single Euro writing in the post. sending it. the payment within 10
Payments Area on Payments are made working days of the payment
our website. on working days date unless the reason is a
only. Payments due fraudulent payment (in which
case Condition 47 applies
to be made on a
and you have 13 months after
weekend or bank
the date of payment to ask
holidays will be
us to cancel). But there is no
sent on the next
guarantee that the recipient’s
working day. bank will return the payment or
that the recipient agrees.
44

When you are being supported by the Specialist Support Team, we may discuss other ways you can
give us instructions e.g. if you register to use our Banking app, you can give us payment instructions
using the Banking app. Once you have registered, please refer to the information earlier in this booklet
about how to give us payment instructions using Internet Banking or the Banking app.
Important information about payments when your account is being operated by your Attorney
or by a Court appointed Deputy. Your Attorney or Deputy will need to contact us to get registered
with Nationwide so that they can manage your account for you. During the registration process, we will
explain what restrictions or limitations apply to your Attorney or Deputy when they want to instruct a
payment to be made from your account in writing, using a Branch, a Card or the Internet Bank.
If I get a refund on my card when will the money be back in my account?
We’ll be able to pay the refund into your account when we receive it.
Can I use a Third Party Provider?
Yes, if you are registered for Internet Banking, you can choose to use a Third Party Provider:
• to request payments are made from your account on your behalf,
• to provide account information services to you
provided the Third Party Provider is acting in accordance with the relevant regulatory requirements and is
a participant in the Open Banking initiative. You can check whether the provider is authorised and part of
the Open Banking initiative in the information they give to you about the services they will provide and by
checking openbanking.org.uk.
If you have a joint account, each of you is entitled to consent to a Third Party Provider accessing
information in respect of your account and/or making payments from your account, and either of you
can revoke any ongoing consent granted to a Third Party Provider to access your account.
We will treat any instruction from a Third Party Provider as if it was from you. A Third Party Provider
should not ask you for your Internet Banking security details in order to provide their service. If you give
your log in /security details to a third party that isn’t authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority or a
European Regulator, we’ll have to assume it’s you that’s authorising us to give access to your account,
will treat payments instructed by that third party as authorised by you and will not be responsible for any
losses you incur as a result of misuse or disclosure of information about your account by that third party.
If you consent to a Third Party Provider having access to information concerning your account, we will
assume that you consent to access being granted as frequently as the Third Party Provider requests it.
If you ask a Third Party Provider to request one or more payments from your account and they don’t do
this, we won’t be responsible for your payment(s) not being made.
We may stop a Third Party Provider from accessing your account for reasons related to unauthorised
or fraudulent access to your accounts by that organisation. We’ll tell you about this using any of the
contact details we hold for you unless this would compromise our reasonable security measures or would
be unlawful.
If you want to cancel the consent you have given to a Third Party Provider to access your account
you should contact them directly. Once a Third Party Provider has initiated a payment, you cannot
normally cancel it. You can cancel some payments to be made in the future. Please see the ‘Important
information about payments’ table.
We will not share your log in / Internet Banking security details with any third party.
45

My personal details have changed, should I tell you?
Yes, you must tell us straight away if you change your personal details, the table below explains how to do
this:
Branch Internet Bank Over the phone
Name Yes No No
Address Yes Yes No
Telephone Number Yes Yes Yes
Email Address Yes Yes Yes
Will you ever ask me to provide information to you in order to keep my account safe?
If we’ve taken action against someone else because of something that has happened on your account,
you must help us and provide us with all the information we reasonably ask for. However, we will never
ask you (and you should never tell anyone, not even our representatives) for your Internet Banking
security data (such as your customer number, your passnumber, one time passcodes and card reader
codes) or your PIN.
How else might you take steps to keep my account safe?
As a security measure, we may stop money being paid into or taken out your account, or block access to
your account, in the following circumstances;
• if you have not used it for a period of 12 consecutive months and we have not been able to make
contact with you;
• if any letters we post to you are returned to us, until you give us your new address details; or
• if we reasonably think you’re living outside the UK and we reasonably consider this increases the risk
of fraud or other unlawful things happening on your account. For example, we may do this where the
Government says there’s a high risk of money laundering or terrorism in the country you live in.
If we block access to your account this may also mean that we no longer send you any statements or other
communications.
Communication
How will you contact me?
When we contact you for service and operational reasons, such as telling you about changes to terms and
conditions, sending you information, letters or notices, we’ll use any contact details we have for you. This
includes your postal address, your telephone numbers and your e-mail address. We may also send you
messages within or via the Internet Bank or Banking app.
On joint accounts, we’ll send this information to the address or contact details of the first person named
on our records only, even if you live at different addresses, unless we are required by Law to contact
you both.
If we need to contact you because of a suspected fraud or because of security concerns relating to your
account, we will do this by a secure method of communication. As part of this we may have to ask you to
provide parts of your security information/personal information so we can be sure we are talking to you
but we will never ask you to disclose a password or other information in full.
If we say in these terms and conditions that we will send you a personal notification, we’ll contact you in
at least one of the following ways:
• By writing to you (email, letter or text);
• Sending you a notice via Internet Banking or via the Banking app (where you are a registered user).
46

If we do not specify that we will send you a personal notification, we may then tell you in at least one of
the following ways:
• Displaying information in branch;
• Displaying information on our website;
• Advertising in the press.
We may also contact you by:
• Phoning you;
• Speaking to you in person (in branch); or
• Any other way that is reasonable and appropriate at the time.
We may use your mobile phone number, e-mail address, notices via Internet Banking, push
notifications through the Banking app or any new methods that may become available in the future to
notify you of certain activity on your account. We’ll use the most recent contact details we hold for you
and you will be able to opt out of these alerts by contacting us. If you choose to opt out of these alerts
you will be able to opt back in at any time by contacting us.
If we communicate by a method that would only be effective for UK residents (e.g. in branch), we will
also do so by another method (e.g. by email or on the website) for the benefit of members who do not
live in the UK.
In order to receive and see messages using email and on the Internet Bank you must make sure that
your device is set up correctly and has the right hardware, operating system and browser.
How to contact us
There are times when you will need to contact us, for example, to report suspicious or unauthorised
activity on your account. Where you need to do that in a specific way, we have set out the information in
the relevant section of the terms.
If you need to speak to us about anything else, or you want to close your account, please contact us in
any branch or call us on 03457 30 20 11.
Current account declaration
In this declaration section of this leaflet, “Nationwide” means:
• Nationwide Building Society; and
• its subsidiary companies, and any limited liability partnership of which it is a member, which include
Nationwide Covered Bonds LLP, The Mortgage Works (UK) plc, E-Mex Home Funding Ltd, Cheshire
Covered Bonds LLP, Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd, Nationwide Independent Financial Services Ltd; and
I (each of us if more than one is applying) agree that:
(a) The information that I have given you on the application form is complete and true, and I have not
withheld any material facts; you can rely on it in deciding whether to open the account; I understand
that you can decide to decline my application;
(b) As well as the account conditions, Nationwide’s rules apply to this account and I can obtain a copy of
these in any of your branches;
(c) The money I am investing in this account (which I will not use for business purposes) is my own;
(d) For joint accounts:
(i) you can pay cheques and act on instructions signed by either of us unless you are
told otherwise;
(ii) for the purpose of s.185(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, if you give us an overdraft you
are not required to provide more than one statement. If we want individual statements we will
tell you;
(e) Nationwide has not provided any advice or recommendation regarding any free insurance provided
with this account.
47

Words we use
Account This means your Nationwide account which is either in your name or held jointly with
somebody else.
Banking app This is a service you can register for – it’s an app that allows you to have access to your
account via a mobile device.
Banking Hub means a facility through which several banks and building societies may offer some
banking services to their customers.
Branch This means one of our branches in the UK, and you can find details of the locations of our
branches at nationwide.co.uk/support/contact-us/branch-finder.
Card This means the debit card we issue on your account. We will make it clear whether the context
means use of your actual card, or use of the details (either the details you store in an e-wallet or, where
we issue you with a virtual card, the details you can use to make online payments)
Cheques You may receive payments in pounds sterling from other people in the form of a cheque
drawn on a UK bank or building society, instructing payment of a specified sum in pounds sterling to
you, which you can pay into your account.
Direct debit When you ask another person or organisation to take money in pounds sterling out of your
account with us. You may also see this referred to in our current account literature as -The customer
permits someone else (recipient) to instruct the account provider to transfer money from the customer’s
account to that recipient. The account provider then transfers money to the recipient on a date or dates
agreed by the customer and the recipient. The amount may vary.
Direct debits are often used to pay for things like magazine subscriptions or gym or club membership.
We do not offer members the ability to set up direct debits in Euros and you can only set up a direct
debit with the organisation you are paying. If you’ve set up any direct debits on your account to pay
another person or UK organisation and that person or UK organisation’s bank doesn’t take any money
from your account for a long time (usually 13 months or more), we can delete the record from your
account unless the person or the UK organisation you are paying tells us that it shouldn’t be deleted.
EEA The European Economic Area and the countries currently in the EEA are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden.
Electronic payment Payments made into or out of your account via electronic banking systems. This
includes direct debits, standing orders, bill payments, CHAPS and overseas payments.
Exchange rate The rate used to convert a payment in a Foreign currency to or from pounds sterling
(e.g. to calculate how many euros is equal to one pound).
Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) The Financial Ombudsman Service was established in 2001 and
helps settle disputes between consumers and UK-based businesses providing financial services, such as
banks, building societies and insurance companies.
48

Foreign currency Means a currency other than pounds sterling.
Interest The extra money we may pay into your account if you have money in your account.
Internet Bank/Internet Banking This is a service you can register for with us that allows you to have
access to your account via a secure site you can log in to via nationwide.co.uk
Law Means any law, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us or which we have agreed to follow.
Law in the UK Means the law of England and Wales.
Month Means a calendar month.
Nationwide cash machine Means one of our cash machines, which we refer to in this agreement as
‘our self-service machine(s)’, a ‘Nationwide cash machine’ or a ‘‘Fast Cash’ self-service machine’.
Open Banking initiative Means the UK’s Open Banking initiative, which Nationwide is a participant in.
You can find out more information about Open Banking at www.openbanking.org.uk
PIN Personal Identification Number. It’s a 4 digit number that you need to remember to use when you
use your card at cash machines or to buy things in shops.
Regulator An organisation that supervises financial institutions to ensure certain requirements,
restrictions and guidelines are followed, aiming to maintain the integrity of the financial system and
provide the best outcome for customers. We’re subject to the requirements of a number of Regulators
such as the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the Payment
Systems Regulator (PSR) and the Information Commissioner’s Office.
Specialist Support Team Where a member is experiencing challenging times (like living with or
recovering from an illness such as cancer or depression) the Specialist Support Team offers a
service to help members and their carers manage their accounts.
Standing order When you ask us to pay a set amount of money at regular intervals (e.g. weekly or
monthly) to someone else’s bank account or when someone else pays a set amount of money at regular
intervals into your account. You may also see this referred to in our current account literature as – The
account provider makes regular transfers, on the instruction of the customer, of a fixed amount of
money from the customer’s account to another account.
Statement A record of what has been paid into and out of your account.
SWIFT A way of making a pounds sterling payment from the UK to another country or a payment in a
currency other than pounds sterling. SWIFT cannot be used to make payments in euros to an account
within the Single Euro Payments Area.
Telephone Banking Means our telephone banking service.
Third Party Mandate means our authorisation form account holders can complete and give to us if you
want to authorise us to accept instructions on your account on your behalf from a third party. The form
sets out what the third party can do, please read it carefully.
49

Third Party Provider means a third party payment service provider which is authorised by Law to
access information and/or give instructions to make payments from online payment accounts operated
by other providers (such as us and other building societies, banks and credit card issuers).
Working day Any day which is not a Saturday or Sunday, or a Bank Holiday in England and Wales.
Where, due to time difference, it is a different day in England and Wales than in your jurisdiction (e.g. it
is Tuesday in your jurisdiction and Monday in England and Wales), references should be read as referring
to the day in England and Wales (Monday, in this example).
In this document, references to cut-off times are to local times in the UK.
50

Ask in branch
Call 03457 30 20 11
Visit nationwide.co.uk
Nationwide Building Society is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority under registration no 106078.
You can confrm our registration on the FCA’s website, fca.org.uk
Nationwide Building Society. Head Ofce: Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN38 1NW.
You can receive this document and others like it, in Braille, large print
or on audio CD. Just call 03457 30 20 11 or visit your local branch if
you’d like us to arrange this for you.
If you have hearing or speech difculties:
• You can use Text Relay if you have a textphone. Dial 18001,
followed by the phone number you want to ring
• SignVideo is also available if you’re deaf and use British Sign
Language. Just visit Signvideo.co.uk
To fnd out about other ways we may be able to help, search
‘accessibility tools’ on nationwide.co.uk
Nationwide cares about the environment - this literature {)recycle
is printed in the UK with biodegradable vegetable inks on Paper from
paper from FSC® certified and other controlled material. r F es s po c n • s ib c le o o so s ur 1 ce 4 s 3 W th h is e n le y a o fl u e t h p a l v e e a f s in e i s r h e e cy d c w le i th it
P4055 (October 2023)