Savings
Our Savings
Terms and Conditions

These terms and conditions are full of useful information, so please read them
carefully. Once you’ve done this, it’s a good idea to keep them in a safe, handy place
just in case you need to refer to them later.
Contents
Our Savings Terms and Conditions
01 About our agreement with you Page 3
02 Getting in touch with each other Page 6
03 How we work out interest on your money Page 8
04 Changes to your interest rate or related Page 9
product features
05 Paying money into your account Page 11
06 Taking money out of your account Page 12
07 Information about payments into and out of Page 15
your account
08 Looking after your account Page 16
09 If money is taken out of your account without your Page 17
permission
10 When we may stop money being paid into or taken out Page 18
of your account
11 What happens if we make a mistake with a payment? Page 19
12 Changes to your terms and conditions Page 20
13 Using money in your account to pay money you owe us Page 22
(‘set-off’)
14 Closing your account Page 23
15 Law, language, personal information and our Page 25
regulators
Savings Terms and Conditions | 2

01
About our agreement with you
Our Savings Terms and Conditions make up part of the agreement we have with you.
This agreement is also made up of:
your Product Terms and Conditions
your interest rate
our savings promises to you
any other document we give you and tell you are additional terms and conditions.
When we talk about the ’agreement’ or the ’terms and conditions’ we mean all the information
mentioned above. Our right to change the terms and conditions (see Sections 04 and 12)
applies to any of this information.
As well as the terms and conditions, our Rules will apply to you because you’re a member of
this Society. You become a member by having a savings account with us. You’ll find an up to
date version of the Rules at nationwide.co.uk
If you prefer paper, you can ask us for a copy of the Rules, or any other part of the agreement
whenever you like.
About your Product Terms and Conditions
These are specific to your savings product and they have priority over anything that’s said
differently in another part of the agreement. Your Product Terms and Conditions include:
• how and when we pay interest
• the ways you can pay money in and take money out
• any limits on the amount you can pay in
• any restrictions on taking money out. For example, if there are limits on how many times you
can withdraw money, or if you have to pay early access charges or give us notice.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 3

About our savings promises to you
We make the following commitments to our 5. We offer a rate guarantee when you take out
members about the way we run our savings another fixed rate bond or fixed rate ISA – if
accounts and cash ISAs: our rate changes between the dates we notify
1. We won’t offer ‘brand new customer only’ you of your options and your existing product
savings accounts. maturity date, we’ll give you the better rate as
long as you get back to us by your maturity
2. We’ll reward existing savers with exclusive
date.
savings accounts (product eligibility criteria
will apply). 6. So long as you’re registered for SavingsWatch‡,
we’ll email you a Savings Summary once a year
3. We guarantee our fixed rate ISA rates will
showing your products’ interest rates, and our
match or beat our equivalent fixed rate bond
range of savings accounts.
rates.
7. We’ll give you a free Savings Review to help you
4. Earn interest on your cash ISA as soon as we
find out if you can get more from your savings.
receive your transfer application, provided
that your funds are free to move and not
subject to any notice period.
‡ There are conditions you’ll need to meet first. Terms
and conditions, and eligibility criteria will apply.
What your savings account is for
Your savings account is for your personal use to help you save money for when you need it. You
must not use it for business purposes and it’s not intended to be used like a current account
for managing your day-to-day finances. If you’re looking for an account for these things, just let
us know and we’ll try to help you find something that suits you better.
Key terms you need to know
• ‘Nationwide’, ‘the Society’, ‘we’, ‘us’ or ‘our’
When we say these things, we’re talking about Nationwide Building Society. Our Head Office is:
Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire, SN38 1NW.
• ‘You’, ‘your’ or ‘account holder’
And when we say these things, we’re talking about the person(s) named as the account
holder(s).
Savings Terms and Conditions | 4

When there’s more than one account holder
If there’s more than one of you, ‘you’ or ‘your’ means any or all of you. The terms and
conditions will apply to each account holder as an individual and to all account holders
as a pair or group. And if one account holder asks us to do something, we’ll assume all
account holders are happy and have asked us to do it. For example, this will apply if one
account holder asks to take out money or close the account.
It’s also only the first named account holder who may be able to vote at our Annual
General Meeting.
When we send letters, statements, notices or other information, they’ll show the names
of all the account holders. Although we may only send them to the address of the first
named account holder if the account holders live at different addresses.
So please think carefully about whose name appears first on the account.
• What we mean by ‘working days’
A working day is any day except a Saturday, Sunday or bank holiday.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 5

02
Getting in touch with each other
How to contact us
You can contact us in a way that suits you:
• message us through the Internet Bank (if you’re registered)
• visit one of our branches
• phone us on 0800 30 20 11 or +44 1793 65 67 89 if you’re calling from outside the UK.
You can also make a complaint by completing a form on nationwide.co.uk
What to do if you think someone else is trying to use your account
If you’re worried someone else knows your security information or that money’s been taken
from your account without your permission, you should tell us in branch or by phoning us. You
can call us on either of the above numbers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
How you can make a complaint
We hope we always live up to your expectations, but if we don’t, we want to know so we can put
things right. If our service isn’t what you expected, or we make a mistake, you can contact us in
any of the ways set out above. We’ll investigate and try to put things right as soon as possible.
What to do if you’re still not happy
If you’re unhappy with our response and want to take your complaint further, you can ask the
Financial Ombudsman Service to look at it. This is a free, independent service and you can find
out more at financial-ombudsman.org.uk
If you refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, you must do this within six
months of receiving our final response. You can ask the Financial Ombudsman Service to
consider your complaint without giving us a chance to resolve it first, but they will only do this if
we agree.
If you opened your account online, you can also refer your complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service using the Online Dispute Resolution platform at
ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr/
Savings Terms and Conditions | 6

How we’ll contact you
When we say we’ll tell you about something personally, we’ll contact you in one of these ways:
• by writing to you (by email, letter or text)
• by sending you a secure message, notice or push notification through the Internet Bank or
our Banking app
If we don’t say we’ll tell you personally, we may contact you:
• by displaying the information in branch
• by displaying the information on our website
And at any other time, we may also contact you:
• by phone
• by talking to you face-to-face (in branch)
• in any other way that’s appropriate.
Keeping us up to date with your contact details
If you change any of your personal details, such as your name, postal address, phone number
or email address, please let us know straight away. If you don’t, you might not receive important
information about your account. You also risk confidential information being sent to your old
address, where it might end up falling into the wrong hands.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 7

03
How we work out interest on your
money
We’ll give you details of your annual interest rate when you open your account, including
whether we’re free to change the rate.
We work out your daily interest rate by dividing the annual interest rate by 365. We then work out
your interest based on the amount of money you have in your account at the end of each day.
So, if you pay money into your account, it’ll usually start earning interest on the day we receive
it, but it won’t earn interest on the day you take it out.
If you pay money in by cheque, it’s a bit different. Your money will usually start earning interest
from the next working day after we receive it.
If you use a paying-in machine
For most types of paying-in machine, we’ll receive your cash or cheque on the day you put it
in the machine.
Sometimes though, you’ll need to place your cash or cheque into an envelope before putting it
into the paying-in machine. We call this a ‘drop paying-in machine’. With this type of machine,
we won’t receive the cash or cheque until it’s emptied, which will be no later than the next
working day.
Tax
The interest may be subject to income tax or other taxes and costs which are not charged by us.
You can find out more by contacting your local tax office or by visiting hmrc.gov.uk
Savings Terms and Conditions | 8

04
Changes to your interest rate or related
product features
In this Section, we set out when we can change your interest rate or make any of the following
types of change:
• introducing or changing an account fee for holding your account with us
• introducing, removing or changing interest rate tiering on your account (where you’ll get a
different interest rate depending on how much money you have in your account)
• changing the amount of any interest you lose or any charges you need to pay if you close
your account early
• changing any period of notice you must give us before you take money out.
And just so you know, when we make any changes, we’ll always act proportionately and
responsibly in the broader interests of our members.
Changes which benefit you
We may increase your interest rate, or make other changes which benefit you, at any time. We
don’t need a reason to make a change that benefits you.
Changes which don’t benefit you
We may reduce your interest rate, or make other changes which don’t benefit you, for the
following reasons:
• To manage the cost of raising money we lend
This is because we use your savings and money raised from other sources to help members
borrow money, for example in the form of mortgages. So, we need to balance the interest rate
we pay (and/or account fee we charge) with the rates we charge borrowing members and the
cost of raising money from other sources.
For example, we may make a change if:
• there’s a change to the Bank of England Base Rate or another relevant market rate
• we need to reduce our rates to attract and retain members who borrow from us.
• If there are changes to rates or account fees on
other savings accounts
We may reduce the interest rate and/or increase any account fee to reflect rate or fee changes
that others are making on similar savings products. We may also make changes to make sure
interest rates and/or account fees are consistent with those for new members.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 9

• If there are changes in the law
We may make a change to reflect any changes, or changes we reasonably expect to happen,
in the law or any code of practice, which apply to us. We may also make a change to respond to
the decisions of any court or ombudsman.
• To meet regulatory requirements
For example, we may make a change to reflect any changes in regulatory requirements or
guidance, or to make sure we can continue to meet existing requirements or guidance. This
includes any requirements affecting the amount of money we have to hold in our reserves.
• If our running costs change
If these costs change, we can make a change to reflect them. Our running costs could include
administrative costs, employment costs, building costs and technology costs or the costs of a
service or benefit provided by someone else.
If your product doesn’t have a fixed end date, you could hold your account with us for a long
time. We can’t be aware of everything that might happen during this time, which means we may
also need to make other changes. If we do, when we tell you about the change, we’ll explain how
it will affect you.
Where your product has a fixed end date, we can still reduce the interest rate, or increase any
account fee or charge for any other valid reason which isn’t listed above.
Telling you about interest rate changes
• Increasing the rate
We may not tell you before we increase your interest rate, but we’ll let you know within 30 days
after the change. We may not tell you personally.
• Reducing the rate where you have £100 or more in your account
We’ll tell you personally at least 14 days before we reduce your interest rate. If you don’t want
to accept the reduced rate, you can close your account. Sometimes, your Product Terms and
Conditions say you must pay a charge, lose interest or give notice if you want to close your account
or switch to another product. This won’t apply for 30 days after we tell you about the change.
• Reducing the rate where you have less than £100 in your account
We won’t tell you personally, but you can find out your new rate at nationwide.co.uk or in branch.
Telling you about the other types of change, and what happens
if you don’t want to accept the change
Section 12 includes details of how we’ll tell you about these changes, and what happens if you
don’t want to accept them.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 10

05
Paying money into your account
Depending on the savings product you have, you may be able to pay money into your account:
• in cash
• by cheque
• by electronic transfer.
Your savings product may also have limits on when and how much you can pay in. For example,
on some products you can only pay money in just the once, when you open it.
Paying money in from overseas or in a foreign currency
Any payment into your account must be in UK pounds sterling and any cheques must be from
a UK building society or bank. You can’t make overseas electronic transfers into your account
except for CHAPS transfers, BACS transfers or Faster Payments from an account in the
Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Paying money in by cheque
You can pay in a cheque as long as it doesn’t have a date in the future and it’s less than six
months from the date on the cheque.
What happens if money is paid into your account by mistake?
If someone pays money into your account by mistake, we may be asked to pay it back. If this
happens, we’ll look into it and if we reasonably think the request is valid, we’ll stop you from
taking the money out and try to contact you.
We’ll then aim to give you time to tell us if you disagree that the money was paid in by mistake. If
we don’t hear from you, we’ll take the money from your account and return it.
If we don’t return the money, we must give information about you, your account and the
payment to the building society or bank that made the payment. It’s legally entitled to this
information so that it can take steps to get the money back.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 11

06
Taking money out of your account
When your money will be available to take out
If you pay money in by electronic transfer or in cash, it will be available for you to take out on
the same day we receive it.
This means that when you pay cash in using a ‘drop box paying-in machine’ (see Section 03), the
money will be available to withdraw no later than the next working day.
If you’re paying money in by cheque, it needs to go through a process called ‘clearing’ first.
The clearing times are as follows:
If a cheque is paid in….. The cheque will be cleared for
withdrawal and certainty….
….at a branch counter or received by post on a working ….at the end (11.59pm) of the next
day, or working day
….using a paying-in machine (other than a ‘drop box
paying-in machine’) before 7pm on a working day
….on a Saturday, Sunday or bank holiday, or ….at the end (11.59pm) of the second
working day
….using a ‘drop box paying-in machine’,
or any other paying-in machine after 7pm on a working
day
When we say a cheque’s cleared for ‘certainty’, we mean that the money belongs to you and
we won’t be required to pay it back to the paying building society or bank. This won’t apply if
you’ve knowingly been involved in fraud, or we reasonably suspect you have.
Please note that, even if the money in your account is available for you to take out, your
agreement may limit or restrict you from doing this.
How can you take money out?
Depending on the savings product you have, you may be able to take money out of your
account:
• in cash
• by Building Society cheque
• by electronic transfer.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 12

Taking money out by electronic transfer
Type of electronic transfer When we accept your When the money arrives Can you cancel your
request to take money out at the account you’re request?
paying it to
Faster Payment When you ask us to make Within two hours No
the transfer
Internal transfer to another When you ask us to make Immediately Not usually*
account you have with the transfer
Nationwide
* When you put money into a new savings account or withdraw money at the end of a Bond’s term, you may ask for
the transfer to be made on a future date. You can cancel a future dated transfer any time up to 4pm on the day
before it’s due to be made. You can do this by getting in touch with us in one of the ways set out in Section 02.
Our savings products don’t allow you to make withdrawals by setting up a direct debit or standing order. And the only
overseas electronic transfers allowed are Faster Payments to an account in the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
How to ask to take money out
We need to make sure we have your consent before we can go ahead with your request to take
money out. You give your consent by following these steps:
• Through the Internet Bank and Banking app
Logging on using a combination of:
• your log-in or other security details
• biometric information (such as your fingerprint)
• your card reader
• your mobile device
• a security code, and confirming details of the withdrawal you want to make.
• At a branch counter
Handing a signed written request, together with your passbook or cash card to one of our branch
staff. We may also ask you for additional information to confirm your identity.
• Using a cash machine
Putting your cash card into a cash machine, entering your PIN and confirming the amount you
want to take out.
• Through the post
Sending us a signed written request to take money out.
If you’ve followed the correct steps for making a withdrawal, we may assume you’ve made the
request and won’t have to make further checks.
To help prevent financial crime, we may need to make extra checks to make sure it’s really you
who’s asking to take money out of your account. This might delay it, or we might not allow the
money to be taken out at all. We won’t be responsible for any loss because of this.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 13

How to take money out by electronic transfer
If you want to transfer money to another account, you’ll need to give us the following
information:
• If you’re moving money outside of Nationwide, the name and address of the building
society or bank you’re making the payment to.
• The sort code and account number. Please make sure these are correct as we’ll use them
to make the transfer.
• The name of the person or organisation you’re transferring money to.
• The amount.
• A reference – so you can keep track of the transfer.
If you give us the wrong account details, we’ll try to get your money back if you ask us to,
although we may charge you for doing this. We’ll agree any charge with you before taking any
action.
Sometimes, you might ask us to transfer money or pay interest to another account, but we’ve
been told the account has been moved to a different building society or bank. When this
happens, we’ll transfer the money to the new account and make sure that future transfers or
interest are also paid to the new account.
Where to find out what limits apply
There may be limits on the amount you can take out of your account at any time. Examples include:
• A limit on the amount you can send by Faster Payment in one go.
If you want to take out more, you’ll need to make separate withdrawals for amounts
below the limit.
• Daily limits on the amount you can take out by cheque or in cash at a branch counter.
• Daily limits on the amount of cash you can take out from a cash machine.
But we’ll let you know of any limits when you ask to take money out. You’ll also find details on
nationwide.co.uk
Sometimes, for security reasons, we’ll also set other limits without letting you know.
What happens if you don’t have enough money in your account?
You can’t take money out unless you’ve got enough money in your account to cover the
withdrawal amount and any charge for making it. If you do have to pay a charge, we’ll take it
from your account along with the amount you’re taking out.
If your account balance goes below zero, you must take steps straight away to return it to at
least zero.
Money returned to us
If any of the money you take out of your account is refunded or returned to us, we’ll pay the
money into your account when we receive it. This may happen, for example, if you’ve asked us
to transfer money to an account that doesn’t exist.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 14

When you’ll remain responsible for making a payment
Sometimes we won’t be able to go ahead with a withdrawal from your account. This may
be because:
• your account has been closed; or
• something unusual or unexpected has happened which we couldn’t control, and we couldn’t
have avoided despite our best efforts. For example, because of a failure in the systems
processing the payment or due to an industrial dispute.
If this happens, you’ll be responsible for finding another way to make the payment.
07
Information about payments into and
out of your account
You can find out about payments into and out of your account by viewing them in the Internet
Bank (if you’ve registered) or by contacting us (see Section 02).
When you make a payment out of your account, we’ll usually record the information in your
passbook (if you’ve got one) or tell you about it personally within a few days. Sometimes, we
may choose to group payments together - if we do this, we’ll still tell you personally about
payments from your account at least once a month.
If you make a payment using the Internet Bank or our Banking app, we’ll always tell you
personally about the payment using the Internet Bank. This means that other joint account
holders who aren’t registered for the Internet Bank may need to ask us for the information.
Withdrawals made by cheque or in cash are treated differently. Here, we may not tell you about
the payment personally, but we’ll always give you information about it if you ask.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 15

08
Looking after your account
We’ll do all we can to keep your account safe but there are things you need to do too:
• Keep your security information safe
This can include:
• your personal identification number (PIN)
• your password
• a security code
• your log-in details
• any other security information.
Take care not to write them down in a place where they might easily be found or in a way that
makes it obvious what they are.
Let us know as soon as possible if you think someone else knows any of your security
information or is using it without your permission.
• Take care of your cash card or passbook
Please tell us as soon as possible if it’s lost or stolen. If you find your cash card later on, you
must destroy it.
If you need to sign your cash card, sign it as soon as you get it.
• Let us know if something doesn’t arrive
If you’re expecting to receive something from us, such as a cash card, PIN or statement and it
doesn’t arrive, let us know straight away.
• Check your account regularly
Tell us immediately if you see anything unexpected or you don’t recognise something on your
statements, passbook or the Internet Bank.
• Please do the things we ask you to
Sometimes we may ask you to do other things to keep your account safe and it’s important
you do as we ask. But please make sure it’s definitely us contacting you and not someone
pretending to be from Nationwide. Our staff will never ask you to tell us your PIN or other
security information in full.
You can find out more about how to keep your account safe on nationwide.co.uk
Asking you for extra information
We may sometimes ask you for extra information to prevent money laundering, financial crime
and sanctions breaches and to meet other legal and regulatory requirements. If we ask, you must
give us this information straight away - if you don’t, we may delay or refuse your payment, or stop
you from using your account. We won’t be responsible for any loss you suffer because of this.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 16

09
If money is taken out of your account
without your permission
If you think this has happened, tell us as soon as possible.
And don’t worry, you can ask for the money back as long as you tell us within 13 months of the
money leaving your account.
If you tell us that money has been taken out of your account without your permission, we’ll look
into it immediately. Normally, we’ll refund the money by the end of the next working day and put
your account back to how it would’ve been if the money hadn’t been taken out. However, we won’t
do this where we think you may not be due a refund.
If we ask you to, you must help us with our investigation and with any action we take against
whoever took out the money without your permission.
When you won’t get a full refund
If you’ve been fraudulent, or we reasonably suspect you’ve been fraudulent.
We also won’t refund money taken from your account if you’ve not done something you have
to do under these terms and conditions, either on purpose or with ‘gross negligence’. This will
only apply to money that’s taken before you tell us there is a problem with the security of your
account (see Section 02).
When we say, ‘gross negligence’, we mean you’ve done or not done something that was
very obviously wrong or careless. For example, you may not have kept your cash card safe or
your PIN secret.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 17

10
When we may stop money being paid
into or taken out of your account
If we reasonably think there’s fraud or other unlawful things happening on your account, we can
stop money being paid into it or taken out. We can stop just one payment or all payments.
We can also stop you from making a withdrawal from your account if:
• there’s not enough money to cover it
• the terms of your savings product don’t allow you to take the money out
• we reasonably believe you didn’t ask to take the money out
• your request to take the money out is unclear, incomplete or the details of the account you
want to pay money to are wrong
• it might cause us to act unlawfully or in breach of a regulation, code of practice, court order
or other duty
• we’ve told you that we’re going to use our right of set-off (see Section 13).
When we can stop other services
We can stop you from using your cash card, PIN, password or log-in details for the Internet
Bank or our Banking app where:
• we think your security information is being used without your permission or fraudulently
• we think that the device or the security information you’re using to request a payment may
not be secure.
When we’ll tell you about any steps we take
Where we need to act urgently, we’ll do so straight away and tell you about it afterwards. If it’s not
urgent, we’ll tell you at least seven days before we take any action.
Sometimes, we won’t tell you at all because it would be unlawful if we did.
What happens if there’s a dispute between account holders?
If an account is held by more than one person and there’s a dispute between you, you must
tell us straight away. We can stop any request to take money out or to close the account, or we
may ask all account holders to make a request in writing.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 18

11
What happens if we make a mistake
with a payment?
We always try our best to get things right, but sometimes we may do something that means a
payment into or out of your account goes wrong. If this happens, we’ll make any refund imme-
diately and put your account back to how it would have been if the mistake hadn’t been made.
If we later find out that it was your mistake and not ours, we’ll deduct the amount of any refund
from your account.
Sometimes, our mistake may mean that a payment to an account with another building society or
bank is made late. If this happens, you can ask us to make sure the other building society or bank,
applies it to the account as if it had been made on time.
When we won’t be liable
We won’t be liable for things that go wrong if they happen because of something outside our
control. For example:
• Something unusual or unexpected happens and we can’t avoid it despite our best efforts,
such as a technical failure with our cash machines.
• We have to comply with the law.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 19

12
Changes to your terms and conditions
In Section 04, we let you know when we can make changes to your interest rate or related product
features. This section sets out when we can make changes to any of the other terms and condi-
tions for your account, including changing administration fees.
When we make any changes, we’ll always act proportionately and responsibly in the broader
interests of our members.
Reasons we can make a change to the terms and conditions
• If there are changes in the law
We may make a change to reflect any changes, or changes we reasonably expect to happen,
in the law or any code of practice, which apply to us. We may also make a change to respond to
the decisions of any court or ombudsman.
• To meet regulatory requirements
For example, we can make a change to reflect any changes in regulatory requirements or
guidance, or to make sure we can continue to meet existing requirements or guidance.
• If our running costs change
If these costs change, we can make a change to reflect them. Our running costs could include
administrative costs, employment costs, building costs and technology costs, or the costs of a
service or benefit provided by someone else.
• Due to developments in technology, or to the way we want
to provide our services, or the way the banking industry generally
delivers services
For example, to reflect advances in digital banking.
If your product doesn’t have a fixed end date, you might hold your account with us for a long
time. We can’t be aware of everything that might happen during this time, which means that we
may also need to make other changes. If we do, when we tell you about the change, we’ll explain
how it will affect you.
Where your product has a fixed end date, we can still increase or introduce an administration
charge for any other valid reason which isn’t listed above.
If we want to make a change that benefits you, we don’t need a reason to make that change.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 20

Telling you about changes to your terms and conditions
How and when we’ll tell you about a change depends on the type of change
we’re making.
• Where the law requires us to give you two months’ notice
For some terms and conditions, we’ll tell you personally about the change at least two months
before we make it.
This is a legal requirement and mainly applies to terms and conditions dealing with the way we
manage some payments into and out of your account. It includes changes to Sections 05 to 11
and Sections 14 to 15. It also includes changes to other information such as how we can contact
each other about a payment and when we can make changes to this paragraph.
• Where the law doesn’t require us to give you two months’ notice
If we make a change to the terms and conditions that disadvantages you, we’ll tell you
personally at least 30 days before we make it.
If we’re making a change that doesn’t disadvantage you, we may make it without telling you
first. We’ll always tell you about it within 30 days after the change, although we may not tell
you personally.
What happens if you don’t want to accept the change
If you don’t want to accept a change, you can close your account. If you don’t close your
account, we’ll treat you as having accepted the change on the day we made it.
If your Product Terms and Conditions say you have to pay charges, lose interest or give notice
when you close your account or switch to another product, this won’t apply:
• from the date you’re given notice up until the date the change is made (if the law requires us
to give you at least two months’ notice)
• for 60 days from the date we give you notice (if we must give you at least 30 days’ notice of
a change that disadvantages you).
Moving your account to a different product
Sometimes, we may move your account to a different savings product, for example, where
we’re closing the type of product you have.
Where we do this, it’ll be for one of the reasons for changing the terms and conditions listed
above. We’ll also compare the terms and conditions of the old and new products and treat you
in the same way as if we were just changing the terms and conditions. This applies to how we
tell you about the move and what you can do if you’re not happy for this to happen.
Just so you know, the above will not apply if your account moves automatically to a different
product, for example, when a fixed term ends.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 21

13
Using money in your account to pay
money you owe us (‘set-off’)
If you don’t pay us money you owe us when it’s due, for example on a mortgage or credit card,
we can pay it using money you have in your account. This applies to all money you owe us,
or any other company in our group (including The Mortgage Works (UK) plc and UCB Home
Loans Ltd).
We can do this unless the law or other restrictions prevent it. For example, we won’t use any
money we think you need for essential living expenses or important debts, and we won’t use
money you’re holding for someone else.
Where the account’s in your sole name, we can use money in it to pay:
• a debt only you owe us
• a debt that you owe us together with another person, or other people.
Where the account’s a joint account, we can use money in it to pay:
• a debt owed to us by one or more of the account holders
• a debt owed to us by one or more of the account holders and another person, or other
people, together.
We’ll tell you at least 14 days before we use any money in this way.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 22

14
Closing your account
If your savings product has no fixed end date, your account will continue until it’s either closed by
you or we close it. Where your product has a fixed end date, your account will continue until that
end date and we’ll then close it or move it to a new product.
If you change your mind after you open your account
You normally have 14 days from the date you opened your account to ask us to close it. If you
didn’t receive your terms and conditions until after you opened your account, you’ll have 14
days from the date you received them.
If you ask us to close your account within those 14 days, we’ll return the money you’ve paid
in and pay you any interest you’ve earned. You won’t lose any interest or pay any charges for
closing your account.
If you need to pay us any money under this agreement, you must pay it within 14 days of telling
us to close the account.
If you don’t close your account within the 14-day period, your account will continue as
described above.
Closing your account at any other time
You can close your account any time you want by getting in touch with us. You’ll find out how to
contact us in Section 02.
You may have to pay a charge, lose interest, or give notice before closing your account unless
other terms and conditions say you don’t. For example, you won’t have to do this if we make a
change to the terms and conditions that’s to your disadvantage (see Section 12).
You can’t close your account until any money paid in has been cleared.
When we can close your account
We can close your account at any time as long as we tell you personally at least two months’
before we close it. If your savings product has a fixed term, we’ll make sure the notice period
doesn’t end before the end of the fixed term.
We can, however close your account straight away in exceptional circumstances, even when
your product has a fixed term.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 23

Here are some examples of exceptional circumstances:
• We’re legally required to close your account.
• You have, or we reasonably believe you have, used the account for illegal or fraudulent
purposes.
• By keeping your account open, we reasonably believe we may:
- break a law, regulation, code, court order or other duty
- be exposed to action from a regulator, government or law enforcement agency.
• You’ve been threatening or abusive towards our staff.
• You didn’t meet the terms and conditions to open the account or didn’t qualify for your
savings product.
• You’ve committed a serious breach of your account’s terms and conditions or you’ve
repeatedly breached them.
• You don’t provide us with information we ask you for about your identity or your tax
position.
If an account holder dies
If you’re the sole account holder, we’ll pay the money in your account along with any interest to
your personal representatives. These are the people who, on your death, are responsible for
administering your estate.
Your personal representatives don’t need to give us notice to close the account or take money
out. They also won’t have to pay any charges and won’t lose any interest.
And, where there is more than one account holder, the surviving account holder(s) can keep
the account open in their name(s) or ask us to close it.
Different arrangements may apply if the money in the account is being held on behalf of
someone else, for example if the account is held in trust.
Can you transfer your account to someone else?
No. You can’t transfer your account or any of your rights or obligations under it to another person.
When nothing happens on your account for a long time
We take part in the dormant account scheme under the Dormant Bank and Building Society
Accounts Act 2008. If nothing happens on your account for 15 years (or another period
specified by law) - for example, you don’t pay money in or take money out - we can transfer the
money in your account to a reclaim fund. The reclaim fund uses the money for good causes.
You’ll still be able to get your money back though and you can ask us how to do this at any time.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 24

15
Law, language, personal information
and our regulators
The law applying to the agreement between us
The agreement, the operation of your account and any discussions we’ve had with you about
entering into the agreement is governed by English law.
If you want to bring a court claim about this agreement, the courts of England and Wales can deal
with it. This does not stop you from bringing a claim in a local court if you live in another country.
The language we use
This agreement is in English and we’ll always use English when we communicate with you.
Using your personal information for payment services
You consent to us accessing, processing and keeping any information you give us, so we can
provide payment services to you. You can withdraw this consent by closing your account
(see Section 14). If you do this, we’ll stop using your information for this purpose, but we may
continue to process information about you for other purposes where we’re required to or
allowed to by law.
Our regulators
The Society is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority under registration
number 106078. You can confirm our registration on the FCA’s website fca.org.uk
Our VAT Registration Number is: GB 485 9633 89.
Savings Terms and Conditions | 25

Savings Terms and Conditions | 26

Savings Terms and Conditions | 27

Ask in branch
Call 03457 30 20 11
Visit nationwide.co.uk/savings
Nationwide Building Society is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority under registration number 106078. You can confirm our
registration on the FCA’s website fca.org.uk
Nationwide Building Society. Head Officie: Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN38 1NW.
You can receive this document and others like it, in Braille, large print
or on audio CD. Just call 03457 30 20 11 or visit your local branch if
you’d like us to arrange this for you.
If you have hearing or speech difficulties:
• You can use Text Relay if you have a textphone. Dial 18001, followed
by the phone number you want to ring
• SignVideo is also available if you’re deaf and use British Sign
Language. Just visit Signvideo.co.uk
To find out about other ways we may be able to help, search
‘accessibility tools’ on nationwide.co.uk
Nationwide cares about the environment - this literature
is printed in the UK with biodegradable vegetable inks on PPaappeerr ffrroomm
paper from FSC® certified and other controlled material. rreessppoonnssiibbllee ssoouurrcceess When you have finished with
this leaflet please recycle it
P3780b (January 2026)