Important things to know
about your mortgage
General Mortgage Conditions 2019

We’ve been helping each other
buy homes since 1884
Although times have changed since 1884, when Alfred and Elizabeth Idle became our first mortgage
members, the one thing that hasn’t changed is our dedication to helping people buy homes of their
own. Having a Nationwide mortgage (or savings account or current account) makes you a member.
And, today, there are 15 million of us; helping one another save up, buy homes and prosper.
Part of our commitment to our members includes making sure any terms and conditions are as easy
to understand as possible. After all, the last thing we want is for you to have to wade through lots
of technical jargon. So the rest of this document has been designed to help you feel fully informed
about the conditions of your mortgage. In the meantime, if you have any questions before your
mortgage begins about the legal side of things, your conveyancer will be able to help. Once you have
your mortgage, it’ll then be over to us for anything else you need.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 2

Contents
General Mortgage Conditions 2019
01. Your agreement with us page 4 09. Defaulting on your mortgage page 12
02. What you have to pay page 5 10. What happens if you default? page 13
03. Fees, charges and costs you may have to pay page 7 11. Transferring your mortgage page 15
04. When we’ll charge interest page 8 12. Acting on your behalf page 15
05. Changes in your interest rate page 9 13. Communicating with you page 16
06. Looking after your property page 10 14. Changes to these conditions page 16
07. Insuring your property page 11 15. Standard securities in Scotland page 16
08. Your property rights page 11 Standard Conditions (Scotland only) page 17
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 3

01. Your agreement with us
These conditions make up part of our agreement with you. Mortgage deed
Our agreement is also made up of your mortgage offer, Your mortgage deed creates a legal charge over your property
mortgage deed and, as long as you’re a borrowing member, (known as a standard security in Scotland). The legal charge
Nationwide’s rules. is our security for the money you owe us under the mortgage.
This means that if you’re in default (see section 09), we can
The agreement sets out the rights and responsibilities that
sell your property to repay all the money you owe us. We’ll hold
protect both you and us. We’ll be able to use any of our rights
the charge until all the money you owe us under this mortgage,
until the mortgage ends, even if we choose not to use them
or any other mortgage you have with us, has been paid in full.
right away. It’s important that you read all the parts of the
agreement and keep them together in a safe place in case you If someone else takes another charge over your property, we
need to look at them in future. won’t lend you more unless it’s removed, or they agree we’ll be
repaid first if the property is sold.
We’ll refer to our agreement with you as ‘your mortgage’
throughout the rest of these conditions. Our rules
You can find our membership rules on our website, or you can
Mortgage offer
request a printed copy from any branch.
Your mortgage offer includes the parts of our agreement that
are specific to you, such as the amount of money we’ve agreed Properties in Scotland
to lend you and the mortgage product you’ve chosen. If your If your property is in Scotland, there are standard conditions
mortgage offer says something different from another part of which are part of our agreement with you. You can find these at
the agreement, the offer has priority. We may give you other the end of this document.
offers in future if we’re willing to lend you more money or to
Key terms you need to know
make any changes to your mortgage.
When we say ‘Nationwide’, ‘the Society’, ‘we’, ‘us’, or ‘our’ in this
document, we’re referring to Nationwide Building Society, or
anyone who takes over, or merges with, the Society. If we’ve
transferred any of our rights under the mortgage to
someone else, ‘we’ may also refer to the person we’ve
transferred them to.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 4

When we say ‘you’, ‘your’ or ‘the borrower’, we’re talking about 02. What you have to pay
the person(s) named as the borrower(s) on the mortgage. If
there is more than one of you, ‘you’ or ‘your’ means all or any
of you. You’re each responsible for the entire mortgage as Your mortgage will end when you pay back all the money you
individuals, and you’re also responsible as a pair or group. owe us and we no longer have a legal charge over the property.
The money you owe us is made up of the money we lend you,
When we say ‘month’ or ‘year’, we mean a calendar month or a
plus interest, fees, charges, or costs which you owe at any time.
calendar year.
A monthly payment is due on the first day of each month until
When we say ‘your property’, we mean the property shown in
the money you owe us is repaid. You can choose to make your
your mortgage deed.
monthly payments on any day up to the 28th of each month,
When we say ‘Property Acts’ we mean the important legislation but this won’t change the due date under this agreement. Any
which applies to mortgages. This differs in England and Wales, part of your monthly payment that you don’t pay on the first
Scotland and Northern Ireland: of the month is known as arrears. However, we won’t take any
action if you’ve chosen to pay on a later day in the month and
England and Wales The Law of Property Act 1925 you make your monthly payment by then.
Scotland The Conveyancing and Feudal You must pay back all arrears immediately, unless we come
Reform (Scotland) Act 1970 (as to an arrangement with you or there’s a court order giving
amended) you more time to pay. This will be in addition to your monthly
payment.
Northern Ireland The Conveyancing and Law
Property Act 1881 and The You must pay us back all the money you owe us by the end of
Conveyancing Act 1911 your mortgage term. You can repay all or part of the money you
owe us at any time, as long as you also pay any related fees and
Where we refer to the Property Acts in this document, we also
early repayment charges.
mean any changes to them or any new legislation that replaces
them.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 5

Repayment types Your payments
Your repayment type is shown in your mortgage offer. We may vary your monthly payments to reflect any changes to:
• If my mortgage offer says “repayment” • your interest rate
We work out your monthly payment so that the amount you • the amount of money you owe us
owe us (not including arrears) is repaid with interest in equal • your repayment type
instalments over your mortgage term. The monthly payment • your mortgage term
won’t repay any arrears but it will include interest
We’ll give you reasonable notice before any change in your
on the arrears.
monthly payments.
• If my mortgage offer says “interest only”
• Paying off the money you owe us
We work out your monthly payment to pay only the interest
Any payment will be put towards any fees, charges, or costs
we charge (including interest on any arrears). To keep things
which were added to your account during the year, and which
simple, we divide the interest that we expect to charge each
you still owe.
year into twelve equal payments. You’ll have to pay the
rest of the money you owe us at or by the end of your After that, it will be used to pay off any unpaid interest that
mortgage term. we’ve charged you during the year. Anything that’s left will be
put towards the rest of the money you owe us.
It is possible that the money you owe us may increase to
more than your loan plus any product fees you asked us to • Paying off arrears
add to it. For example, this can happen if we add costs or If you have arrears, any payment we receive will reduce those
charges to the amount you owe us. In this situation, we’ll work arrears. However, if your monthly payment is used to reduce
out your payments so that the extra amount (not including your arrears, there’ll be nothing left to pay the amount due
any arrears) is repaid with interest in equal instalments over in the current month. This means that you’ll need to make a
your mortgage term. payment in addition to your monthly payment to reduce your
total arrears.
• If my mortgage offer says “part interest only and
part repayment”
We work out your monthly payment on each part separately
in the ways described above. We’ll then add these together to
make your total monthly payment.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 6

03. Fees, charges and costs • Changes in the law
We can increase or introduce charges to reflect any changes
in the law or any code of practice – or to respond to the
you may have to pay
decisions of any court or ombudsman.
• Meeting regulatory requirements
Fees
We can increase or introduce charges to reflect any changes
Your mortgage offer will say if there are any fees (for example,
in regulatory requirements or guidance. We can also do this
a product fee) and, if so, whether they are to be added to the
to make sure we can continue to meet existing requirements
loan or paid separately. We won’t change these fees.
or guidance. This includes requirements about the reserves
Charges we have to hold.
We may ask you to pay our standard charges for services we • Changes in what we do
provide or work we do for your mortgage. Our most common We can increase or introduce charges to cover the cost of
charges are published in our tariff of mortgage charges, which providing a new service or taking on new work. We’ll only do
you can find on our website. We won’t ask you to pay a charge this where we have a good reason for providing the service
that isn’t shown in our tariff unless we tell you first and you or taking on the work (for example, to respond to a change in
agree to pay it. technology or banking practice).
You should pay any charges as soon as we ask you to. • Changes in the cost of what we do
Otherwise, you may have to pay interest on them as explained We can increase charges to reflect increases beyond our
in section 03. reasonable control in the cost of providing the service or
doing the work charged for.
We can reduce or remove any of our standard charges at
any time. We can also introduce charges for providing a service or
doing work that we haven’t previously charged for. We’ll only
We can also increase our standard charges or introduce new
do this where it’s unsustainable to provide the service or do
charges at any time. Where the charges are shown (or will be
the work without charge.
shown) in our tariff, we’ll only do this for the following reasons.
We’ll make sure that any new or increased charges shown
in our tariff are proportionate to the reason for introducing
or changing them. We’ll notify you of any changes to these
charges before they take effect.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 7

Costs
• Costs of a receiver
We may also ask you to pay the actual costs we incur in doing We may ask you to pay the costs incurred by any receiver in
work for your mortgage. These may either be costs we incur managing the property or repossessing and selling it.
within the Society or costs we have to pay to others (for
example, solicitors’ fees).
04. When we’ll charge interest
We’ll only pass on our costs where they aren’t covered by one
of the standard charges shown in our tariff. We can pass on our
We’ll charge interest at the rate or rates in your mortgage offer
costs in full so long as we’ve acted reasonably in incurring them
until you’ve repaid all the money you owe us.
and the amount is reasonable. You should pay any costs as
soon as we ask you to, otherwise you may be charged interest We’ll work out the interest we charge each day at the start of
on them, as explained in section 03. the day. Any payment you make will reduce your interest from
the start of the following day (unless we use it to pay off money
Here are some examples of costs which we may pass on to you.
that we haven’t started charging interest on yet).
• Taking legal action
When we send money to you or your conveyancer, we’ll start
We will pass on the reasonable costs of taking legal action in
charging interest on it as follows:
connection with your mortgage such as any costs of taking
possession of your property, looking after it and selling it.
When we send money by… We start charging interest…
This also includes any court proceedings, even if you aren’t
involved in them. BACS Two working days after the
day we send the money
• Putting things right
CHAPS or Faster Payment The same day we send the
If your property is not insured, or you don’t pay any
money
maintenance, service charges or rent that you must pay, we may
pay them for you. If we do this, we’ll pass on the cost to you. Cheque Two working days after the
date of the cheque
We may also pass on the reasonable costs of putting right
any breach of the mortgage by you, and any breach of the If any interest which is due for payment remains unpaid on
restrictions and obligations affecting your property. 31 December, we’ll start to charge interest on it from 1 January.
If you don’t take good care of your property, we can charge
you for the reasonable costs to us of looking after it.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 8

If you don’t pay fees, costs or charges when we ask you to, we Increasing a rate that we can vary
can start charging interest on them from the next day. Where We may increase your interest rate for the following reasons:
a fee is added to your account when we make you a loan, we
• Cost of raising the money we lend
can start charging interest on it at the same time as we start
We may increase rates to reflect changes in the costs of
charging interest on the loan money we send.
raising the money we lend to mortgage members whose
We may choose to delay charging interest on any fees, costs or rate we’re free to vary. These costs may change for a number
charges we’ve added to your account until the following of reasons, for example, because of increases in the
1 January. Bank of England Base Rate or other market rates. They may
also change due to increases in the rates we need to pay to
We’ll continue to charge you interest at your interest rate even
attract and retain savers or increases in the costs of raising
if a court makes an order for you to pay the money you owe us.
money from other sources.
• Changes in the law
05. Changes in your
We may increase rates to reflect any changes in the law or
any code of practice – or to respond to the decisions of any
interest rate
court or ombudsman.
• To meet regulatory requirements
When we refer to your interest rate in this section, we mean
We may increase rates to reflect any change in regulatory
your current interest rate and any rate you’re due to pay in the
requirements or guidance, or to make sure we can continue
future. Your mortgage offer will tell you which rates you’re due
to meet existing requirements or guidance. This includes
to pay and from when, and whether we’re free to vary them.
requirements affecting the reserves we have to hold.
Reducing your interest rate
• Changes in running costs
We may reduce your interest rate at any time.
We may need to increase rates to reflect changes beyond our
reasonable control in the costs of running the Society.
• Changes in risk
We may increase rates to reflect an increase in the risk of our
lending to you due to a change in the way your property is
used or occupied. For example, this can happen if you let the
property.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 9

We’ll make sure any increase in your interest rate is Changes to your property
proportionate to the reason for increasing it. You must not change the structure of your property or extend
it in a way that reduces its value.
Increasing a rate that we’re not normally
free to vary Any building work must be properly carried out and comply
We can increase an interest rate that we’re not normally with all necessary consents and regulations. You need to let us
free to vary, such as a fixed rate. We’ll only do this if there’s know immediately if you receive any notices claiming that you
a change in the way the property is used or occupied which have not complied with any relevant consents or regulations.
increases the risk of our lending to you. For example, this
You must not change the use or occupation of the property
can happen if you let the property. Any increase will be
without our written consent. This includes leasing, letting,
proportionate to the increase in the risk of our lending to you.
licensing or parting with possession of it, or any part of it.
Telling you about changes
Giving us access to your property
We’ll let you know before we make any change to your interest
You must allow us to inspect your property if we ask. We’ll visit
rate.
at a reasonable time and will let you know in advance.
You must also allow us access to your property to carry out or
06. Looking after your
complete any building work needed to ensure your property is
in good condition. We may do this if you’ve failed to keep your
property
property in good condition.
If we enter your property, it doesn’t mean that we have taken
You’re responsible for taking good care of your property. possession or accepted legal responsibility for it.
You must also comply with any restrictions or obligations
affecting your property. If your property is leasehold, this In Northern Ireland
includes keeping to the terms of your lease, and not doing If your property is affected by criminal damage, you may be
anything which might allow the landlord to end the lease. able to claim compensation from the government. If this is the
case, you need to let us know within seven days of the incident.
If you are told that you are in breach of any of these
restrictions or obligations, you must let us know immediately. If you make a claim for compensation, you must be clear that
the property is mortgaged to us.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 10

07. Insuring your property 08. Your property rights
You must make sure that your property is covered by buildings When we refer to ‘property rights’ in this section, we mean rights
insurance for its full rebuilding cost. The rebuilding cost you have as the owner of your property. For example, you may
includes site clearance, professional fees and any legal and have the right to extend your lease, or claim on a guarantee or title
regulatory requirements. You mustn’t do anything which means insurance. This doesn’t include rights under an ordinary buildings
the insurer could refuse to pay claims under the buildings insurance policy. You may also have rights as a shareholder or
insurance. member of a management company, residents’ association or
something similar.
If your property is leasehold and the landlord is responsible
for insuring it, you must make sure that they’re doing so. If the If your property is damaged or loses value, you may receive
landlord does not insure your property, or is insuring it for less statutory compensation, or money from insurances or
than its full rebuilding cost, you must let us know. guarantees. You must use this to fix any related problems,
or to reduce or pay off the money you owe us. You’ll hold any
If your property is not insured, we may arrange insurance. If we
money you receive in trust for us. This means that you’ll hold the
do this, we’ll pass on the cost to you.
money on our behalf, and if we ask for it you must pay it to us
If a claim is made on the buildings insurance, any money immediately. We’ll use the money to fix the problems or (if it’s not
received from the insurer must be used to reinstate your practical to fix them) to reduce or pay off the money you owe us.
property or reduce or pay off the money you owe us.
While the mortgage continues, all property rights are
You must hold any money paid to you by the insurer in trust transferred to us as part of our security. They will pass back to
for us. This means that you’ll hold the money on our behalf, you when the mortgage ends.
and if we ask for it you must pay it to us immediately. We’ll use
If you default, as explained in section 09, we can transfer any of
the money to reinstate the property or (if it’s not practical to
the property rights to someone else.
reinstate it) to reduce or pay off the money you owe us.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 11

New rights you must tell us about
09. Defaulting on your
If you gain any new property rights, they’ll become part of our
security. You must let us know about the new rights within a mortgage
month.
New property rights may include:
Being in default means you’ve failed to keep to our agreement,
• A new or extended lease on your property. or something else has happened, and it’s so significant that we
• An interest in the commonhold or freehold of your can take steps to end the mortgage.
property.
If this happens we can write to you to demand that you pay us
• An interest in the freehold of any building which includes
all the money you owe us immediately. You’ll be in default if any
your property.
of the following things happen.
• An interest or right which benefits your property in or over
other land or buildings. You’re late paying money under the mortgage
If requested, you must give us evidence to show that you own Any part of your monthly payment that you miss is known
the new interest. If we ask for it, you must also send us any as arrears. You’re in default if your arrears are equal to two
relevant documentation and give us a charge over the new monthly payments or more.
interest. You’ll need our agreement to the terms of the charge.
You’ll also be in default if you owe us any other amount equal
to two monthly payments or more and are more than one
month late in paying this. For example, you may owe us service
charges that we’ve had to pay on your behalf.
You don’t repay the money you owe us at the end
of the term
You’re in default if you don’t repay all the money you owe us as
soon as your mortgage term ends.
You’re in breach of your mortgage terms
You’re in default if you’ve breached any term of your mortgage
which doesn’t require you to pay money. However, you won’t be
in default if the breach is minor or you put it right quickly.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 12

You’re made bankrupt
10. What happens if you
You’re in default if a bankruptcy order is made against you (this
is known as a sequestration order in Scotland). You’ll also be in
default?
default if you put formal arrangements in place with the people
or organisations you owe money to.
If you default and we have written to you asking for payment of
The information you gave us was incorrect
the money you owe us, we may immediately take steps to:
You’re in default if we find out that information you gave us when
• repossess the property
you applied for your mortgage was incorrect or incomplete.
• sell the property
However, you’re only in default in this case if we wouldn’t have
• appoint a receiver (not in Scotland)
lent you the money if you’d given us the correct or complete
information. Our right to sell your property is free from the restrictions in
the Property Acts.
A public body takes possession of your property
You’re in default if there’s a compulsory purchase order on We can also use the other enforcement rights we have under
your property or the government or another public body takes the Property Acts. These rights are free of any restrictions in
possession of your property (or any part of it). the Acts and in addition we are able to do any of the following.
In England, Wales or Northern Ireland • Look after your property
If you haven’t been looking after your property, we can do
You’re in default if your property is leasehold and you’ve
any repairs or building work needed to put it into good
breached the terms of your lease, for example, you haven’t paid
condition. This includes applying for all necessary consents,
your ground rent or service charges.
for example, planning permission.
In Scotland
• Manage lettings
You’re in default if you share ownership of your property
We can grant a new lease, tenancy or licence of the property.
with a housing association (or similar organisation) and your
We can collect the rent being paid under an existing lease,
occupancy agreement with them is breached or ends. You
tenancy or licence. We can also agree to the lease, tenancy
won’t be in default if the agreement ends because you have
or licence being extended or given up, or to its terms being
bought the whole of the property.
changed. We’ll use any money we receive to reduce or pay off
the money you owe us.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 13

• Deal with a shared ownership property Things left on the property
If you hold the property on a shared ownership basis, we can If we take possession of your property, we can also remove,
buy further shares in the property or in a shared ownership store or sell any goods or animals on the property on your
lease of the property. We can also buy the freehold or accept behalf. We won’t be responsible for any loss or damage caused
a further lease. We can require any of these further shares or by us doing this unless we don’t take reasonable care.
interests to be transferred to a buyer of the property.
Using other money you have with us
• Grant rights over other land you own
If you don’t pay any of the money you owe us when it’s due, we
If you own other land, we may give others the right to access
can repay it by using any money you have in an account with us.
or use it. We’ll only do this if it’s reasonable and necessary to
We can also repay it by using any other money we owe you.
protect or increase the value of your property.
We can do this unless the law or other restrictions prevent it.
Where we’ve appointed a receiver
For example, we won’t use any money that we think you need
A receiver is someone who will manage the property. If we for essential living expenses or important debts. We also won’t
appoint a receiver, they’ll act on your behalf and you’ll be use any money that you’re holding for someone else.
responsible for their costs. They may use and pay other
We can use any money from any account held by any
people to carry out any work that is needed. The receiver
borrower named on the mortgage. This includes accounts
can repossess or sell the property. They will also have the
held jointly with other people who are not named on the
other enforcement rights that we have (with the benefit of the
mortgage.
extensions in this section). However, they will not have the right
to appoint a receiver. We’ll give you at least 14 days’ notice before we use any money
under this right.
Any money received by the receiver will be used in the same
order as money received by us (as set out in section 03).
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 14

11. Transferring your We may also obtain information from your legal adviser (including
information protected by legal privilege) which is relevant to the
mortgage. We can also recover any documents containing this
mortgage
information from a regulatory body, or another legal adviser if your
original adviser is no longer practising.
We may transfer some or all of our rights under the mortgage
If we appoint a receiver, you’ll also appoint them as your attorney.
to another person at any time. For example, we could sell your
This will be a separate appointment and the receiver will be
mortgage to someone else.
allowed to do all the things that we can do under our power of
If this happens, it won’t reduce your rights under the mortgage. attorney (except appoint another receiver).
As part of this agreement, we can share information we hold
Our power of attorney and a receiver’s power of attorney are
about you with the person we’re transferring our rights to.
both part of our security. This means that you can’t revoke
If we transfer all our rights under the mortgage, you’ll no either power and they won’t be revoked by your death,
longer be a borrowing member of Nationwide. bankruptcy or mental incapacity. These powers will only end
when you have paid back all the money you owe us and we no
longer have a legal charge over the property.
12. Acting on your behalf
When you take out this mortgage, you appoint us to be your
attorney.
This allows us to do anything needed to use, protect and
enforce our rights under this mortgage - in your name and on
your behalf.
This includes signing documents, entering into agreements
and registering any documents at a land registry on your
behalf. We can also exchange any information with any other
person who has an interest in the property.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 15

13. Communicating 14. Changes to these
with you conditions
If we need to communicate with you, we’ll write to you by post In addition to our right to make changes to interest rates and
or email. charges, we may also change, remove or add to any of these
conditions. We may do this to:
If we send We’ll send it to… We’ll assume you’ve • take account of any decision by a court or ombudsman
it by… received it… • reflect legal or regulatory requirements
Post The address you’ve Within two working
We’ll make sure any change is proportionate to the reason for
given us days after posting it
making it and we’ll give you at least three months’ notice.
Email The email address On the day we sent
you’ve given us the email
15. Standard securities
You should avoid giving us a postal address outside the United
in Scotland
Kingdom as a notice posted to that address may take longer
than two working days to arrive.
Where the money you owe us is to be secured by a standard
security over heritable property in Scotland, the standard
conditions in Schedule 3 to the Conveyancing and Feudal Reform
(Scotland) Act 1970, as amended, shall apply, subject to the
variations set out in these conditions.
General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 16

Standard Conditons Completion of buildings etc. and prohibition of alterations etc.
2. It shall be an obligation on the debtor -
(Scotland only)
(a) to complete, as soon as may be practicable, any
unfinished buildings or works forming part of the security
These are the standard conditions contained in Schedule 3 subjects to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor;
of the Conveyancing and Feudal Reform (Scotland) Act 1970, (b) not to demolish, alter or add to any buildings or
as amended, referred to in the Nationwide Building Society works forming part of the security subjects, except in
General Mortgage Conditions 2019: accordance with the terms of a prior written consent of
the creditor and in compliance with any consent, licence
Conveyancing and Feudal Reform (Scotland) Act 1970
or approval required by law;
(as amended by the Redemption of Standard Securities
(c) to exhibit to the creditor at his request evidence of that
(Scotland) Act 1971)
consent, licence or approval.
Schedule 3
Observance of conditions in title, payment of duties, charges,
The Standard Conditions
etc., and general compliance with requirements of law
Maintenance and repair relating to security subjects
1. It shall be an obligation on the debtor - 3. It shall be an obligation on the debtor -
(a) to maintain the security subjects in good and sufficient (a) to observe any condition or perform any obligation in
repair to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor; respect of the security subjects lawfully binding on him in
(b) to permit, after seven clear days notice in writing, the relation to the security subjects;
creditor or his agent to enter upon the security subjects at (b) to make due and punctual payment of any ground
all reasonable times to examine the condition thereof; burden, teind, stipend, or standard charge, and any rates,
taxes and other public burdens, and any other payments
(c) to make all necessary repairs and make good all defects
exigible in respect of the security subjects;
in pursuance of his obligation under head (a) of this
(c) to comply with any requirement imposed upon him
condition within such reasonable period as the creditor
in relation to the security subjects by virtue of any
may require by notice in writing.
enactment.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 17

Planning notices, etc. Insurance
4. It shall be an obligation on the debtor - 5. It shall be an obligation on the debtor -
(a) where he has received any notice or order, issued or (a) to insure the security subjects or, at the option of the
made by virtue of the Town and Country Planning creditor, to permit the creditor to insure the security
(Scotland) Acts 1947 to 1969 or any amendment thereof, subjects in the names of the creditor and the debtor to
or any proposal so made for the making or issuing of any the extent of the market value thereof against the risk of
such notice or order, or any other notice or document fire and such other risks as the creditor may reasonably
affecting or likely to affect the security subjects, to give require;
to the creditor, within fourteen days of the receipt of that (b) to deposit any policy of insurance effected by the debtor
notice, order or proposal, full particulars thereof; for the aforesaid purpose with the creditor;
(b) to take, as soon as practicable, all reasonable or (c) to pay any premium due in respect of any such policy,
necessary steps to comply with such a notice or order or, and, where the creditor so requests, to exhibit a receipt
as the case may be, duly to object thereto; therefor not later than the fourteenth day after the
(c) in the event of the creditor so requiring, to object or to renewal date of the policy;
join with the creditor in objecting to any such notice or (d) to intimate to the creditor, within fourteen days of the
order or in making representations against any proposal occurrence, any occurrence which may give rise to a
therefor. claim under the policy, and to authorise the creditor to
negotiate the settlement of the claim;
(e) without prejudice to any obligation on the contrary
enforceable against him, to comply with any reasonable
requirement of the creditor as to the application of any
sum received in respect of such a claim;
(f) t o refrain from any act or omission which would invalidate
the policy.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 18

Restriction on letting Calling-up
6. It shall be an obligation on the debtor not to let, or agree to 8. The creditor shall be entitled, subject to the terms of the
let, the security subjects, or any part thereof, without the security and to any requirement of law, to call-up a standard
prior consent in writing of the creditor, and “to let” in this security in the manner prescribed by section 19 of this Act.
condition includes to sub-let. Default
General power of creditor to perform obligations etc. on 9. (1) The debtor shall be held to be in default in any of the
failure of debtor and power to charge debtor following circumstances, that is to say -
7. (1) The creditor shall be entitled to perform any obligation (a) where a calling-up notice in respect of the security has
imposed by the standard conditions on the debtor, which been served and has not been complied with;
the debtor has failed to perform. (b) where there has been a failure to comply with any other
(2) Where it is necessary for the performance of any obligation requirement arising out of the security;
as aforesaid, the creditor may, after giving seven clear days (c) where the proprietor of the security subjects has
notice in writing to the debtor, enter upon the security become insolvent.
subjects at all reasonable times.
(3) All expenses and charges (including any interest thereon),
reasonably incurred by the creditor in the exercise of a
right conferred by this condition, shall be recoverable
from the debtor and shall be deemed to be secured by the
security subjects under the standard security, and the rate
of any such interest shall be the rate in force at the relevant
time in respect of advances secured by the security, or,
where no such rate is prescribed, shall be the bank rate in
force at the relevant time.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 19

(2) For the purposes of this condition, the proprietor shall be Rights of creditor on default
taken to be insolvent if - 10. (1) Where the debtor is in default, the creditor may, without
(a) he has become notour bankrupt, or he has executed prejudice to his exercising any other remedy arising
a trust deed for behoof of, or has made a composition from the contract to which the standard security relates,
contract or arrangement with, his creditors; exercise, in accordance with the provisions of Part II of
(b) he has died and a judicial factor has been appointed this Act and of any other enactment applying to standard
under section 11A of the Judicial Factors (Scotland) Act securities, such of the remedies specified in the following
1889 to divide his insolvent estate among his creditors, sub-paragraphs of this standard condition as he may
or his estate falls to be administered in accordance with consider appropriate.
an order under section 421 of the Insolvency Act 1986; (2) He may proceed to sell the security subjects or any part
(c) where the proprietor is a company, a winding-up order thereof.
has been made with respect to it, or a resolution for (3) He may enter into possession of the security subjects and
voluntary winding-up (other than a members’ voluntary may receive or recover the rents of those subjects or any
winding-up) has been passed with respect to it, or part thereof.
a receiver or manager of its undertaking has been (4) Where he has entered into possession as aforesaid, he may
duly appointed, or possession has been taken, by or let the security subjects or any part thereof.
on behalf of the holders of any debentures secured
(5) W here he has entered into possession as aforesaid there
by a floating charge, of any property of the company
shall be transferred to him all the rights of the debtor in
comprised in or subject to the charge.
relation to the granting of leases or rights of occupancy
over the security subjects and to the management and
maintenance of those subjects.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 20

(6) He may effect all such repairs and may make good (b) If the address of the creditor is not known, or if the
such defects as are necessary to maintain the security packet containing the notice of redemption is returned to
subjects in good and sufficient repair, and may effect the sender with intimation that it could not be delivered, a
such reconstruction, alteration and improvement on the notice of redemption may be sent to the Extractor of the
subjects as would be expected of a prudent proprietor Court of Session and an acknowledgement of receipt by
to maintain the market value of the subjects, and for him shall be sufficient evidence of such notice having been
the aforesaid purposes may enter on the subjects at all given.
reasonable times. (c) A notice of redemption sent by post shall be held to
(7) He may apply to the court for a decree of foreclosure. have been given on the next day after the day of posting.
Exercise of right of redemption (4) When a notice of redemption states that a specified
amount will be repaid and it is subsequently ascertained
11. (1) The debtor shall be entitled to exercise his right (if any) to
that the whole amount due to be repaid is more or less
redeem the security on giving notice of his intention so to
than the amount specified in the notice, the notice shall
do, being a notice in writing (hereinafter referred to as a
nevertheless be effective as a notice of repayment of the
“notice of redemption”).
amount due as subsequently ascertained.
(2) Nothing in the provisions of this Act shall preclude
(5) Where the debtor has exercised a right to redeem, and has
a creditor from waiving the necessity for a notice of
made payment of the whole amount due, or has performed
redemption, or from agreeing to a period of notice of less
the whole obligations of the debtor under the contract
than that to which he is entitled.
to which the security relates, the creditor shall grant a
(3) (a) A notice of redemption may be delivered to the creditor
discharge in the terms prescribed in section 17 of this Act.
or sent by registered post or recorded delivery to him at
his last known address, and an acknowledgement signed
by the creditor or his agent or a certificate of postage by
the person giving the notice accompanied by the postal
receipt shall be sufficient evidence of such notice having
been given.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 21

12. The debtor shall be personally liable to the creditor for
the whole expenses of the preparation and execution of
the standard security and any variation, restriction and
discharge thereof and, where any of those deeds are
registered or recorded, the registration or recording thereof,
and all expenses reasonably incurred by the creditor in
calling-up the security and realising or attempting to realise
the security subjects, or any part thereof, and exercising any
other powers conferred upon him by the security.
Interpretation
In this Schedule, where the debtor is not the proprietor of the
security subjects, “debtor” means “proprietor”, except
(a) in standard conditions 9(1), 10(1) and 12, and
(b) in standard condition 11, where “debtor” includes the
proprietor.
SCOTLAND ONLY General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 22

General Mortgage Conditions 2019 | 23

Nationwide Building Society is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by
the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority under registration no 106078.
You can confirm our registration on the FCA’s website, fca.org.uk
Nationwide Building Society. Head Office: Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN38 1NW.
We’re happy to provide this document in Braille, large print or audio
format. Just ask your local branch or call 03457 30 20 11.
Nationwide cares about the environment - this literature
is printed in the UK with biodegradable vegetable inks on
paper from FSC® certified and other controlled material.
CC000033227700
M139a (January 2025)